Silas: Is it on?
DM: Okay, it says it's recording now. All right, so if you recall, the, the environment and where you were was suffocating. It was extremely hot and dry, difficult to breathe. You guys had to ration your water. It was extremely unpleasant and hot. That's no longer the case. So you teleport out of there, and when you arrive, you see the heat is gone. And then you notice immediately that the air is actually a little bit chilly, cold and wet. Uh, you're no longer— your lungs are no longer in pain from, from breathing. Uh, there's no more sulfur or ash or anything like that in the air. Um, you do smell— you smell leaf rot, growing things, uh, and you can kind of faintly hear running water in the distance. You look around, you see you are in a relatively open clearing, about 40 to 50 feet across, grassy, uh, with some ferns around the outside. But you can't see the sky because the trees around this, this clearing are just extremely tall, and their canopy is so large it blocks out the sun completely. Now, there's still light bouncing its way down, but because it's filtered, it's not direct. You can't really even tell what direction the sun is in.
Tavian: What kind of trees?
Tito: Big ones.
Guntrah: Yeah, are we talking pines?
DM: Uh, no, no, not pines. Well, there might be some scattered in, but it's mostly deciduous trees with maybe a little bit of, uh, fir mixed in. But very large, very tall trees. There is a bit of an undergrowth, um, and so it's not— in your clearing you're fine, but you notice that out around this clearing there is a pretty significant undergrowth that would make travel unpleasant. Um, you see there's a couple of trails, uh, but they're small game trails. They don't look like they're humanoid walking trails or anything like that. Definitely not a commercial road by any means or anything like that.
Tito: Uh, let's see.
Tito: And Wrenn came with us?
DM: Uh, Vrenn, yeah, Vrenn did come with you. He felt like he wasn't intending to come with you. He made that pretty clear that he was going to stay behind. But given, uh, Silas, uh, going down and the urgency of the situation with that beast coming through, uh, he felt the need to just cast the spell immediately and get you all out of there, and himself, because he wasn't sure what was going to happen to him when that thing broke free. So, uh, so yeah, he came with you, uh, and you arrive at this place.
Tito: Um, can—
Guntrah: so is there any exit out of this Everywhere is an exit.
DM: There's nothing blocking you from leaving in any particular direction. It's a circular area.
Guntrah: Well, it's a grove, so I didn't know if there was like an opening or if it's just all into the woods.
DM: It appears to all be into the woods unless you want to get on your hands and knees and go through like a game trail from like a small mammal or something, which I don't think even you would fit because you're gigantic.
Tito: Yeah, I mean, I'm gonna ask Vrenn. Vrenn. What is it?
Tavian: Vrenn?
Tito: Where are we? Where'd you take us?
DM: Uh, you know, I, I don't, I don't quite know. Um, this doesn't look exactly familiar to me. I, I don't know. There's only one— this is the only place I know in the Material Plane, and I know that's where you guys wanted to go. I didn't have the ability to send you back where you wanted to go. The way the spell works, I have to think of someplace when I'm casting it, and that's the place we go. And I just thought of the one time that I was up here on the surface, uh, was I emerged from this cave, uh, when I fled Menzoberranzan. And, and I ended up— must be close to here, I would think. I think the spell gets you close to where you, you want to be, but I don't know. I don't know where this is exactly. Just some woods somewhere.
Guntrah: Do you know where you were the first time?
DM: I, like I said, I came out of a cave. I, I don't know where in the world I was. I probably traveled maybe 100 miles or so underground from Menzoberranzan when I, when I was fleeing. I, I don't know what the direction— That's the Underdark city, right? Yeah, it's, uh, Menzoberranzan is, is the Drow city under— it's where that, um, Drizzt Do'Urden, if you're familiar with him, it's where he's from.
Tito: It's the—
Guntrah: my gunslinger character is familiar with that Gotcha.
DM: Yeah, so yeah, it's, it's— everybody's kind of has that knowledge. They know it's this big underground drow city that is kind of up north a bit near the Spine of the World. Um, I don't know if there's any major cities underneath it, but—
Guntrah: Can I do some sort of, uh, I don't know if it'd be history or intelligence.
DM: History is a good one, or, or just raw intelligence, I suppose. Whatever However you want to phrase your sense.
Guntrah: Basically, like, I'm like, I know the place he's talking about, the city, right? And he said he did about, you know, X amount of time moving from it.
Tito: So, well, right, miles, but could be in any direction, right?
DM: Yeah, that's kind of his point, was he doesn't know the— because underground, right, unless you have a compass, you don't know north from south from east, and they don't rely on those. Everything, everything in the Underdark is directionally relative. So it's based on, you know, you have an idea how far below or above you are from where you want to go. You have an idea if it's that way or this way, but we don't associate cardinal directions.
Guntrah: Yeah, I was just rolling to try to see where I knew the city might be located.
DM: Sure, sure.
Guntrah: I got a 10.
DM: You got a 10. A 10's not good. Um, well, no, no, a 10 is average.
Guntrah: It's an easy check as someone who might have looked at a map.
Tito: At the peak of the bell curve.
DM: You know, okay, well, let me see if I can get a—
Tito: can I—
DM: hold on, I got a map pulled up. I'm gonna see if I can get it to be—
Tito: well, that's not bad.
Silas: Okay, Miles, did you say that was— you say Blue Dream?
Guntrah: Blue Pink.
Tito: Oh, Blue Pink.
Guntrah: It's not flavor, it's colors.
Tito: Oh.
Guntrah: I don't know if you ever tasted color before.
Silas: I have.
Tito: I tasted green.
Silas: I tasted orange.
DM: Okay, I've got a map pulled up. Um, okay, so here is— this is a map of the above ground, but you can see Menzoberranzan is right there. Um, 100 miles would be maybe like this-ish, so it could be anywhere in here, which is a pretty big range.
Tavian: On my flight to Portugal, I started reading Homeland, uh, Legends of Drizzt. It's a, it's a D&D-based— Yeah, it's the guy.
DM: Yeah, that's Drizzt Do'Urden.
Tavian: That's his name.
Tito: Oh, oh, I'm reading it. Oh, really?
DM: Oh, he's from the town. Yeah, this guy, uh, Vrenn is from the same town where he's from.
Tito: Oh, shit. Yeah, that was the first time I ever heard of D&D was from those books.
Tavian: Yeah, R.A. Salvatore.
DM: Yep, there's a ton of them, I think. Yeah, those books, they're very popular. Yeah, uh, yeah, so there's a lot of different places he could be, and I don't know if you want to There's really no point, I guess, without more information of pinpointing where you are based on this. You can see there's realistically— there's like 5 different major woods that you could be in, and then some smaller ones.
Silas: So we don't see anything other than what— like, we don't see any kind of like—
DM: Past the trees, the canopy is, is just— yeah.
Guntrah: How tall is the canopy, by chance?
DM: Um, probably 60 to 70 feet high.
Guntrah: Um, hold on everyone, I go above the canopy, look out.
DM: Okay, you start flying up, um, and you have like unlimited range, right? There's no—
Tito: Yeah.
Guntrah: Okay, uh, it's too much.
DM: You, you get there and it is, it is a pretty thick canopy. Um, you are able to get through, but you find yourself having to kind of pull it, pull things out of the way and kind of climb through it as much as fly through it. Uh, but eventually you do, or you're able to breach and go a couple feet above the canopy, um, and you see Uh, you can see there is, um, some—
Guntrah: The mountain ranges would be a good key.
DM: You see some smallish mountains. One of them looks like it might be volcanic, um, probably, I don't know, a good 15 miles away, right at the edge of your vision.
Guntrah: There's— is— but the big mountain range, right, do I see that at all?
DM: Uh, no, that, that would be— that That would be too far away.
Guntrah: And can I— once I get above the canopy—
DM: Well, let's establish first, how long do you think— how far do you think a person can see 100 feet in the air?
Guntrah: This is a good question for—
Tavian: Well, I was just thinking about this because the tip of Portugal is apparently 9 miles from Morocco, right?
DM: That close to Africa.
Tavian: Yeah, it's too far to see, right?
DM: It is too far.
Tavian: Certainly not that far, right? Certainly.
DM: But you're also at ground level And so the curvature of the earth prohibits you from seeing further than that, I think, unless it's monumental in nature or if you are up higher.
Guntrah: Okay, so, so from a 10-story building, you get about 12 miles, right?
Tavian: Wow.
DM: So I would say, which a 10-story building is similar to what height you're at, um, yeah, I would say you could probably just make out the mountains in the distance. Um, it's really, really to judge how many there are, how big they are. Uh, but you can see maybe like 4 or 5-ish mountains in a row.
Tavian: Your multi-tool.
DM: Uh, is that a feature of your tool?
Tito: I don't know.
DM: Oh, figure it out.
Guntrah: Uh, the simple screwdriver could transform into a variety of tools. As an action, you touch an item, transform into any type of artisan tool of your choice. The equipment Beholder's cool, you get +1. Um, it doesn't really—
Tito: isn't actually an all-purpose tool. I've got no tools.
DM: Uh, Google says no. Uh, according to rules as written, an all-purpose tool cannot transform into a telescope because a telescope is standard adventuring gear, not a set of artisan's tools.
Guntrah: Oh, well, I have standard adventuring gear.
Tito: Do you have a—
DM: do you have a standard adventure gear that has telescope in it?
Tito: I don't have a telescope.
Guntrah: So I see this mountain range though, right?
DM: Yeah, you see it very, very far in the distance, and basically everywhere else is around you. You do see that some small breaks, uh, in the trees where it looks like there might be a river or 2 fairly close.
Guntrah: So based on the mountains to the north, knowing that it's probably about 30 miles away, it does—
DM: you don't know directionally what's north and what's south. Actually, you would, because there's only one mountain. You'd be able to see the sun at this point.
Guntrah: Well, right, but there's only one mountain range that runs that.
DM: I'm trying to think what— it's still early in the day, if I recall, because— oh no, you didn't sleep.
Tito: You—
DM: this would probably be evening, right?
Guntrah: But if I see a mountain range, I do know there's only one mountain range.
Tito: It's to the north.
Tito: If you know what area we're in.
DM: Um, well, we know we're in— no, you know that there's all sorts of mountains. Like, look, everything that's gray is mountains, mountains, mountains, mountains.
Tito: Mountains, mountains, mountains.
Guntrah: Right, but where do we pop up at again?
DM: Uh, mountains.
Tito: We don't know.
Silas: Mountains.
Guntrah: I don't know, where's the city though?
DM: Menzoberranzan's right here in the middle. So you're, you're literally in all of, all of these mountains would be in your radius.
Guntrah: Oh, so I'm not seeing like the huge mountains.
Tito: You don't see this.
DM: This is too far away. You would definitely know if you saw that.
Tito: So what's not too far away?
Tavian: Well, like this big rock.
DM: Conceivably it could be any of these, uh, maybe those, which is really close. So probably, probably not.
Tito: If he said he went 100 miles, you think he probably would be farther from here.
DM: There's some smaller mountains down there. I think maybe it could be the Star Mountains, maybe the Nether Mountains. That's right on the edge of the hunt, probably a little bit too far away.
Guntrah: So, all right, so besides mountains, I'm just gonna do—
DM: Sword Mountains down here that are probably right at the edge of the 100 miles.
Guntrah: I'm gonna do a 360, just looking to where the closest I can see, maybe where the— any other distinct features, and also maybe where the woods might end.
DM: You, you're not positive if you can see where the woods end, uh, because again the distance is so great it's difficult to say, uh, where exactly the woods would end. Uh, make a, make a perception check with disadvantage.
Tito: Huh, it's foggy out.
Tavian: I'm mumbling to myself and doing some magic reasoning while he's up there.
Guntrah: 2 16s, so it's gonna be an 18.
DM: Um, you do notice that, uh, there's, there's a, a lot of rivers, and which it seems like maybe that's a fairly uncommon feature. Most of the forests don't have lots of rivers.
Guntrah: And you said it was evening, right?
DM: Yes, I would say the sun is going to be pushing to the west. Well, I'm just deciding now it's east to west. Um, yeah, so it's maybe a couple hours before sunset.
Guntrah: Light or fire would be easy to see then.
DM: Um, yeah, you see a little bit of faint, faint smoke, or possibly just a low cloud. You're not sure, to— in the direction of the sun.
Tito: To the west?
DM: Maybe a little bit to the left of the sun.
Guntrah: Does that indicate maybe a settlement, or are we talking just like maybe a lone thing?
DM: You're not sure. It could be a settlement, it could be And it could be like a caravan who's lit a fire for the night, but it looks like it's again at the very edge of your distance of what you can see.
Tito: So it's hard to say. Back down.
Silas: How much time has passed since we got out of the—
DM: Um, since he's been up in the sky?
Silas: Yeah, since we got out of— since we went through the portal.
DM: Uh, by now maybe like 5 minutes.
Silas: Okay.
Tito: Does that—
DM: does that kill you? I know you're pretty wounded.
Silas: No, but I get like— I have that ring on, so every 10 minutes I get to roll 1d6 hit points. I added back to my—
DM: every 10 minutes.
Tito: Oh, that's nice. I need a long rest.
DM: That's good.
Tito: 22 HP.
Silas: So I was just waiting. I thought, well, if it's 10 minutes, I could throw one.
DM: And that doesn't use a charge or anything, that's just automatic, right?
Silas: Yeah, yeah, that's just the ring.
Guntrah: As you're looking at your ring, I'm gonna walk back to the big— all right, to the west where the sun's setting, I see a little bit of a fire.
Tito: I don't know what it is.
Guntrah: To the north, is it?
Tito: Or—
Guntrah: I don't know.
DM: Yeah, you would assume that it's kind of north-northwest.
Guntrah: The fire is—
DM: the, the fire would be kind of like west-southwest.
Guntrah: Okay, southwest, there seems like a fire. The mountains are northwest.
DM: Northwest.
Guntrah: Other than that, I don't really know where we're at.
DM: Um, I would assume all of your characters would have seen a map, so let's just do a straight intelligence or history check to see if that would ring a bell for any of you guys. Also, do you tell them about the copious number of rivers?
Guntrah: Oh yeah, I'll be like, oh, there's a lot of rivers all around too.
Tito: I rolled an 11.
Tavian: I'm doing a Channel Divinity to get back to 2nd level.
Tito: Natural 20!
DM: Well, you don't get to roll again.
Tito: What?
Tavian: You already—
DM: you already did all your thinking up in the sky. Oh man, did you say intel—
Tito: what did you say?
DM: Either, uh, Intelligence or History. Which might be the same unless you're proficient.
Tito: 16.
Tito: Nice.
DM: Um, so you think, you know, it kind of sounds— what, that's your— what's your race?
Silas: Half-orc?
DM: Do you have like any origin stuff in your background?
Tito: Uh, maybe. Yeah, let me see what I put Am I mumbling and casting?
Tavian: I'm casting Find Steed.
DM: Oh, okay.
Tavian: All right.
DM: Um, yeah, does that take a minute?
Tito: 10.
DM: 10 minutes.
Tito: Okay.
Guntrah: Yeah.
Tito: So, Russ, you get a d6 as that happens.
Silas: Oh, nice. Uh, you mean like origin?
Tito: Like I'm from Baldur's Gate, so if that's anywhere near that—
Silas: I mean, mine says Baldur's Gate for Acolyte.
Tito: Baldur's Gate features shelter.
DM: Sure, we'll say you're from there or from near there. Um, you, uh, you've kind of put it together based on— actually, also, whoever wants to do a nature check for me can as well, because judging by the, judging by the, um, the vegetation, that might help pinpoint a latitude. Well, is it latitude or is it longitude? Which one's the one that goes this way?
Tavian: I think longitude.
Guntrah: Long is this, lat is this.
Tito: Okay. Yeah.
DM: I don't think anybody's good at nature.
Tavian: Reading Drizzt got me. Now I know which one is stalagmite and stalactite.
DM: A lot of underground terminology.
Silas: Oh, you said roll for nature?
Tito: I rolled a 0.
Tavian: Oh wow, 3 minus 3.
DM: Oh, you have a minus 3?
Tito: Yeah.
DM: I would say in general, if I want like a generic roll, it's probably only okay to roll it if you're proficient in it, or at least smart, man.
Silas: I only got a 9.
Tito: I have a 12.
DM: Okay, yeah, it doesn't really help. I mean, at best you can say, well, there's, there's some fir trees scattered around, so we're not down by Baldur's Gate. You know, you're not down by Baldur's Gate, um, but you do have— you have a feeling, you know, that there's only a few forests that have a lot of rivers, um, and the only one that kind of feels like it's not in the north but not in the south that would have like a mixture of these trees Probably the Neverwinter Wood. That's your, that's your hunch.
Silas: So I kind of tell them that I think it's the Neverwinter Wood. I'm like, I think we might be there.
Guntrah: I don't remember, where is—
Tito: where am I from? I don't know.
Guntrah: Well, I know, I know we kind of played it with the people showing up, right? But I don't remember where.
DM: Um, yeah, actually, yeah, no, we did talk about that, didn't we? Um, Let's see, the school's up here in the High Forest. I want to say you were down south somewhere.
Silas: I don't remember.
DM: Was it, was it Tribor?
Guntrah: No, it was wherever the gnome shop was.
DM: I don't, I don't remember what it was. If it's not in, uh, any of the documentation, we probably don't have that.
Tito: Okay, well, we definitely need to find a place to camp tonight.
DM: And it is growing evening. You had a couple hours where he tells There's a couple hours till, uh, sundown.
Tito: And we need to— and then I'd say we need to head in the direction of the city.
DM: Um, what is everybody's passive perception right now?
Silas: So good.
DM: And we'll say that 10 minutes has passed, so you got your health roll, you've got your steam.
Guntrah: 12.
Tavian: I see a giant spirit spectral warhorse.
DM: A giant spectral warhorse. Is it like— is it— does it look like air to kind of go with your air Genasi theme?
Tavian: Yeah, pretty much. All right, like kind of my color, more transparent. I mean, I'm not transparent.
DM: It is a 13 passive perception. Um, yeah, a decent passive perception. Oh, I thought yours was higher than that.
Guntrah: It's wisdom, man.
DM: I mean, wise. So we got 10, 12, 13. What's your 10? Oh, okay. Um, yep, so nothing, nothing happens.
Guntrah: What about Vrenn?
DM: You're gonna make me be—
Guntrah: he's perceiving.
Tito: I would say he would be perceiving with advantage just because he's on a plane that he's not familiar with. He's probably a little bit skittish right now.
Tavian: Well, that's what makes me think he might be distracted. Like, he's thinking like, oh, I've just encouraged the wrath.
DM: I'm trying to encourage you guys to do the role-playing, not me.
Tito: But there's characters to roleplay.
DM: I didn't even want him here. You guys forced him to have to be here.
Tito: Oh, you could have killed him or something.
DM: You're right, I could have killed him.
Tito: He stepped on a trap, you know. He's gone.
Silas: He came through and his head was off.
DM: Of course his passive perception's 18.
Silas: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah.
DM: Um, so, so you guys don't notice anything. Like, you're just sitting there, you've got— you're like, oh, look at my cool horse. Like, guys, look at my cool horse.
Tito: That's a pretty sweet horse, man. It is sweet. Where'd it come from? And, uh, Vrenn's like Did you guys hear that?
Guntrah: Huh?
Tito: Did you—
Tito: did you hear that?
Tavian: Hear what?
DM: There's something in the trees over there. And he kind of points off to the northeast.
Tito: Yeah, great. Um, it's— it sounded big.
DM: Ooh, that's probably my horse.
Tito: No, it definitely wasn't.
DM: Your horse is over here. I heard something over there.
Tito: Everybody be quiet.
Guntrah: Should we try to proceed further?
DM: Um, now that we're paying attention, active perception checks, everybody. If your perception is based on sound or smell, roll with advantage if you, if you, if you have that thing. Some people have a specialty.
Tito: Um, mine's just a 15. Mine's a 15 too. 13.
Tito: Mine is 11.
Tito: 11.
DM: Um, I surprised you.
Tito: Yeah, what's your— what's your—
Tito: what's your—
Tito: what's going on, dude? Oh, 15.
DM: So same as you guys.
Guntrah: Oh, um, dude, you seem like you passively got that better than he did.
DM: His passive's 18, but he rolled a 7 on the dice, so, um So yeah, uh, you don't hear or see or— well, you do smell. It doesn't smell like a, a healthy forest. It smells a little— not quite rotten, but a little bit funky.
Tito: A little funky.
Guntrah: Mildew.
Tito: You smell some like patchouli.
DM: Um, and you look down and interspersed with the grass, which the grass is a little bit taller, but you You see kind of low in the grass there is a very faint fog, but it's not like a white fog. It has a greenish tinge to it.
Tito: You see that?
Silas: Yeah, that smells a little bit weird.
Guntrah: It's coming from that direction?
DM: Uh, it's just everywhere.
Guntrah: Oh, it's been here the whole time?
DM: Yeah, it's just been here and you're just noticing it.
Silas: I'm like, oh, I don't know about this stuff.
Tito: I feel like it's, uh, it's gonna be Not good.
Silas: Looks green and kind of weird.
Guntrah: Um, can maybe do an investigation on the fog?
DM: While you're trying to figure out what to do, uh, you hear a deep kind of almost snarling voice, uh, come out of the woods somewhere. It's hard to tell exactly where it's coming from.
Tito: Uh, you hear a voice?
Tito: Yes.
DM: And you hear it says Who sent you?
Tavian: I want to use Divine Sense.
DM: Uh, you remind me what that does again?
Tavian: As an action, you can detect good and evil until the end of my next turn. Um, since anything affected by the Hallow spell, or know, know the location of any celestial, fiend, or undead within 60 feet that's not behind total cover.
DM: Um, yeah, so you wouldn't, you wouldn't pick up on anything.
Silas: I say, yo mama.
Tavian: It asked—
Guntrah: what did it ask? Who sent us?
Tito: Who sent you?
Tavian: I said, well, it was Vrenn.
Guntrah: Uh, no one.
DM: And you hear a loud smell.
Tito: You smell like the Abyss. Who sent you?
Silas: That's my ex-body spell.
DM: It's the Abyss scent.
Tito: Yeah, the Abyss scent.
Tito: Let me cue something up here.
Guntrah: I'm gonna be like, uh, I think we might have been there, but we're back now. We're from here.
Tavian: Using deception.
Tito: Okay.
Tito: I'm gonna say, we belong here.
Tito: It's not untrue though.
Guntrah: It's not even a lie. Um, we're in Faerûn. We do belong here.
DM: Roll deception with advantage because it's not a complete lie, unless you're saying you belong here in the forest. If you say we belong here like you're talking about the forest—
Tito: Correct.
DM: Yes, then, then don't roll with the— with advantage. Just roll a straight deception roll.
Tito: Okay, I better go with the lucky green.
Tito: 14, 24, 26.
DM: Okay, um, you hear, uh, you don't hear anything for a couple seconds.
Tito: Plus 12 to deception, plus 12 to persuasion, plus 12 to performance.
DM: Oh yeah, he's a bard. That's his job.
Tito: Yeah, uh, you hear, uh I think you're mistaken. You belong to the West.
DM: Okay, that doesn't make sense to you, but that's what he says.
Tito: Yeah, uh, your friends do not belong here. You're on my property. Tell him we're trying to get out of here.
Tavian: Yeah, can you show us the way?
Tito: Yes, I will use Persuasion now and ask that we may That I will say, we are but passing through, headed to the southwest to the village outside of the woods.
DM: And you do like a little, like a heel clip in the air?
Silas: Correct.
Tito: Well, I'm getting— I'm a performative, so I'm going to be— if he can see me, so that's what I'll say.
DM: Okay.
Tito: We're just passing through innocently.
DM: Okay.
Tito: With no harm intended.
DM: That does not go over.
Tito: Uh, I, I used to say—
DM: So what's your plus? Skill 13 plus—
Guntrah: yeah, so that's a 1.
DM: You rolled a nat 1, and the ability check nat 1 doesn't matter.
Tavian: No, I read when I was reading the rules learning about this, like, crit fails and crit success only matters in combat.
DM: I like to apply it to everything.
Tavian: I do too. I feel like that's how we always play it.
Tito: Yeah.
Silas: And I don't like to apply it to anything.
DM: Well, then a 20 is no, no longer a natural success. Yeah, but now we're gonna apply 20s and 1s to everything.
Tavian: Okay, I like that rule. Yeah, that's a good— it's more fun.
Tito: Yeah, yeah.
DM: Um, but a 13 would have been good enough anyway.
Tito: So, um, you hear, uh, to leave is what you wish?
Tavian: Yes.
Tito: Uh, yeah, yeah, guys.
Guntrah: Yeah, yeah, yeah, we want to get out of here.
Tito: Yeah, we wish to leave.
Tito: I do wish them— everything has a price. You must pay my price if you wish to leave my land.
Silas: I'll do it.
Tavian: And I start pulling my pants down. For glory!
Silas: Yeah, it's gonna take one for the team.
DM: Yeah, get him, man.
Tito: Name your price.
DM: You hear some crunching noises. And it's coming from the northwest area. And, uh, you see first just— it's just a giant dark shadow, and then you see a head poke through, and it is a very large green dragon head. And it kind of pokes through the— this dark— Pull my pants back up. Pokes his head through this thick underbrush, uh, and you see it's, uh, it's not particularly old, um, but it's You know, there's tiers of dragons, right? There's the younglings, and then there's, you know, the more adult dragons, and then there's the ancient dragons. Uh, this one appears to maybe be in that adult/ancient range. It's hard to say exactly. Uh, it's not particularly well lit under this canopy.
Tito: Um, but you can tell it's a green dragon.
DM: You can tell he's a green dragon for sure.
Tito: Yeah, of the chromatic. Yes, right.
DM: Yes, he's a green chromatic.
Tito: I'm quite familiar with these fell beasts.
Guntrah: Are you?
Tito: Myself? I don't know about Tito.
DM: I don't know. Well, I mean, I know none of you are rangers. If somebody was a ranger and had their dragons as their choice of— I don't know if they call foes or something, but yeah, then you have a ton of knowledge about them. But I don't think anybody here qualifies. So, um, it is a, a big scary green dragon, pokes his head through, and he says, uh, Uh, can I inspect?
Guntrah: What level?
DM: Do you have a thing for that?
Guntrah: I right-clicked.
DM: Right-click inspect does not work.
Tito: Shit, green dragons always.
Tito: Yeah, I have 22 health, so yeah, we need to Not.
Guntrah: And what's your character's name again? Uh, Tito.
Tito: Tito, we gotta talk our way out of this.
Tito: Come on.
Tito: Yeah, I have a big bag of gold.
DM: Sorry, my wife's talking. My son's playing on my computer and he's doing homework.
Tito: Fucking put him on speakerphone. We'll all yell at him. I don't think we can take this.
DM: You gotta talk him out of it.
Tito: You gotta talk him out of it.
Silas: Why?
Tito: Yeah, we can't take this fucking green dragon.
Silas: No.
Tito: No, he's got 3 health, I'm pretty sure.
Tito: I've got—
Guntrah: well, no, he's rolling d6s over there, right?
DM: Yeah, only 1 so far.
Silas: Oh, I thought I did too.
DM: I'll give you a second one for free then.
Tito: Yeah, I thought you said 3 though.
Silas: Yeah, 3.
Tavian: Got a 3 on the 1d6 maybe.
Guntrah: Okay, 3.
DM: Sorry, where were we?
Tito: Uh, 3.
DM: He poked his head through, somebody asked him a question, I forgot what.
Tito: I said name your price.
DM: Oh, uh, he said— yeah, he says, uh, first I need to know if I can trust you. And he just kind of looks around and it looks like he's just looking you over, analyzing you. You're not exactly sure what he's doing.
Tavian: I say, I'm a Paladin of Glory, you can trust us.
DM: He looks at Bren and he says, That one I cannot trust. You might be right.
Tavian: He's not really with us.
Tito: I'll use deception again. I will say he is our prisoner.
Tito: Okay, roll.
Guntrah: Uh, can I apply a help action?
DM: I don't need it.
Guntrah: 30.
Tito: Oh yeah, wow. Um, this is, uh, Available.
DM: I look back at him. I don't say anything. I just look back to see what—
Tito: what—
DM: what—
Tito: You don't—
DM: so your interpretation is available as a— as a mate?
Tito: I'm just—
DM: that's how you're interpreting?
Tito: I'm seeing— I just want to look back at Vrenn and see what his reaction is to hearing— I think it means for us as a snack, because he's from the Abyss, so he's used to like, maybe he can be eaten and come back alive or something. His But his boss is a lich, like he could have been killed 5 times and resurrected.
DM: It's like he's handling this encounter— not encounter, it's not the right word— this situation, he's handling it pretty well. You know that he's been dealing with very powerful things a lot in his lifetime or whatever, um, so you see he seems like he's taking this pretty well, um, and then, uh, he kind of looks at you like, if I'm your prisoner, you have to speak for me.
Tito: I can't answer the question myself.
Tito: I'll look back and I'll say For a price.
Tito: The price is already announced. Let's make a deal. He says, uh, first of all, you need some rest.
DM: And he looks at Silas.
Tito: I'll be here when you wake up.
DM: And then he just withdraws his head. from the foliage and kind of goes back to being unseen.
Tito: Oh shit, oh shit. I'm supposed to sleep with him out there?
Tavian: My steed.
Silas: I'm like, watch. I'm like, I can make— I can put the tiny cut up. He can't. Nothing can. Also, even a dragon can't get through that.
Tito: I don't know, I'm giving up. He helped us.
DM: Yeah, I mean, he doesn't want to be here, so yeah, but You also see at this moment Vrenn goes down onto his knees and he's holding his head, uh, and shaking it just for about 15, 20 seconds. And then he kind of comes to.
Tito: He says, uh, he says, Morvek knows. He knows I'm here.
DM: Whatever you need to— if you need to give me to this dragon, that's fine. I, I don't have a fate either, either way. Either I go with this dragon, if that's the price that you have to pay to leave, or I wait for Morvek to come and collect me. I have no good ending right now, so you do what you need to do.
Tito: When will Morvek come? He said a couple days.
Guntrah: I He—
DM: I know, I don't think he has a tuning fork on him. Uh, I don't think there's one left in the basement, but I also know he's a very, very resourceful lich. He's probably gonna get one very soon. I don't expect him to have the arcane capacity to plane shift today, but he did say he knows I'm in the mortal plane, but that could be more the, the grave token Speaking to him, and maybe its connection to me tells him where I am. I don't know how that works exactly.
Guntrah: So maybe if you're with the dragon at the time, we're gonna kick him out.
DM: Unless he's in the plane, I know he can't scry on me. So even if he knows I'm in the material plane, he can't come here to this spot unless he can scry, and he can't scry unless he's here in the material plane, which he's not. So I think a day or two— 2 to 3 days is probably the best guess. 2 days if he really wants to come and get me. 3 to 4 days if he, you know, maybe has other priorities, because he knows he can track me anywhere. I'm never safe.
Tito: Son of a lich.
Tito: Is he able to take that green dragon?
DM: He and the green— I would say, you know, I honestly, if I was a betting man, I wouldn't pick either one. They're both probably pretty capable.
Tito: Hmm, worth watching.
Guntrah: Maybe your best bet's to go with the green dragon and he keeps you alive, and then Morvek comes and they—
DM: uh, depends how long I can keep it a secret. If he knows that there is a lich after me, he's not going to want to deal with that unless he thinks that he's stronger and he can barter me back for something else. That's the way green dragons typically work. They trade information, they trade creatures, assets, things of that nature.
Silas: See, really, Dirk doesn't want to control Vrenn. He's like, I don't want this other guy to have to mess with. He's like, yeah, he's just dead either way, pretty much.
Tito: At this point, Prince, he's our friend.
Silas: It's our friend.
Tito: Fuck that, man.
DM: He's a friend.
Tito: He's helped us out of a tough situation. We're just gonna like give him up like that? Yeah, dude, we're friends. We're friends, us 4. Well, he is part of our crew.
DM: He does not have your Captain Planet ring.
Tito: Oh, but he helped us out, man.
Guntrah: I don't know, I don't feel comfortable just giving him up like that.
Tito: Well, I don't feel comfortable having a lich chasing us.
Silas: That's true. If he comes with us, the lich will be chasing us in the sun.
Tito: That's like— You hear the clock is ticking. Well, until tomorrow.
Tavian: Yeah, we get to sleep.
Guntrah: Stop listening.
Tito: Holy shit.
Silas: The dragon's name is Alexa.
Tito: I need to get to sleep, and we'll talk about this in the morning.
Tito: Silas, can you Throw us up a hut.
Silas: Yeah, so I put the tiny hut up.
Tavian: Tiny hut.
Tito: Where's my thing?
Guntrah: Is the dragon— he never gave him his name, right?
DM: Not yet, no.
Guntrah: Is he still like hanging about?
Tavian: He's—
DM: yeah, he can hear. I mean, he's not eavesdropping, but he's within earshot.
Guntrah: Uh, Mr. Dragon?
Tito: Yes?
Guntrah: What's your name, sir?
Tito: Tendrovaxiliath.
DM: Oh, uh, do you have a shorter name?
Tito: Thax. You can call me Ted.
Guntrah: Okay, Ted. Hey, uh, a couple questions. One, we're good till morning, right?
Tito: Sure.
Guntrah: 2, do you mind if I gather some firewood and make a fire, or is that too much? It's okay if it's too much.
DM: There's no verbal answer. Instead, a tree comes shooting out of the woods and just lands on the ground next to you.
Guntrah: It's got all the firewood you need. Thank you, Ted. Appreciate it.
Tito: Better off, Ted.
Guntrah: You're a nice host in your home.
Tito: We'll see about that.
Guntrah: Okay, so I'm gonna take my greataxe out, I'm gonna chop.
Tavian: Okay.
Guntrah: I'm gonna make a small fire. I'm gonna clear out a section and make a fire.
Tito: Yep.
Guntrah: Okay, just, just to keep— just because it feels good.
Tito: Sure.
DM: Yeah, it is, it is chilly here. Not like winter, but it's like a, like fall, like now.
Tito: Yeah.
Guntrah: So I, I go ahead, me and my automaton, I'm chopping and he's moving the wood into the Oh yeah, completely forgot about him already.
Tito: Yeah, yeah.
Guntrah: Um, and so, um, where's my notes? Where's my notes?
Tito: Gosh, this scroll's terrible.
Guntrah: Um, Ollie the Steel Defender makes a little fire, then He goes, fire comes out of him and starts it. He's a little lighter. And so there's a little fire outside the dome, and I'm just like, all right, thanks, Ted. Am I getting bonus points for this guy because I'm polite and nice?
Tito: Maybe.
Tito: Hey, okay, well, I'm going to sleep as soon as that hut's up.
DM: Are you casting the hut?
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Okay, how and where? What does it look like? I don't remember the hut.
Tito: I think we're all supposed to be very close.
DM: Is it like a dome?
Silas: Yeah, it's like a— it's kind of like a dome.
DM: Just a 10-foot opaque dome, right? Yeah, 10-foot, uh, diameter radius. 10-foot radius.
Tito: Okay, it's pretty big. Yeah, yeah.
DM: I mean, it's less than half of this clearing, but it's still pretty big.
Guntrah: Yeah, radius, that means 20 feet across, right?
DM: And this, um, yeah, 20 feet from end to end, which this clearing is like 40 to 50 feet across.
Guntrah: It's much bigger than I ever thought. Like, I always thought it was 10 feet. It was like last time.
DM: I thought it was 2.
Guntrah: You guys were all like huddled in like a circle.
Tavian: You're like staying—
Silas: no, it's pretty— I mean, it says you can have like 9 creatures or whatever in there, so maybe because yours is leveled up.
DM: What about sound? Once you throw that up, can you guys still talk to him and he talk to you? I don't know how that works.
Guntrah: I don't think so. I think it's dampened, right?
Silas: It doesn't really say, um, because it's comfortable and dry inside regardless of the weather outside. Just talks about the You know, just the fact that it's opaque and stuff, kind of. And, um, it doesn't say anything about sound or anything.
Tito: Okay.
DM: Um, it does seem like it should, um, like muffle the sound.
Guntrah: You can't see in, right?
DM: Otherwise it defeats the whole, you know, sneaky purpose.
Tito: Correct. Yeah, it's meant—
DM: So I would say probably, yeah, you, you can probably hear things from outside the dome, but you can't They can't hear you.
Guntrah: Yeah, yeah. So I get the fire going, you throw the dome up. I imagine most of you are going—
DM: Well, when he throws the dome up, do you— does everybody have to be inside at that time?
Tavian: Yes, that's how I interpret it.
DM: I think so.
Guntrah: But then you can go in and out.
DM: But anybody— but except he can't go out or the spell ends. Yeah, you guys can come and go.
Guntrah: I mean, the fire could almost reasonably be—
DM: Yeah, you could, you could put this fire in there.
Silas: They were saying like that this thing could be used for other things, like if you're in a battle you could have that thing go up and I, I can't leave, but you guys can fight and you guys can come behind it. Well, we did that and nothing can I might get through it.
Tavian: Doesn't it take a minute to cast?
DM: A little bit of time.
Tito: 11 minutes.
DM: Yeah, because it's a ritual.
Guntrah: Yeah, I think if you're a sorcerer though, you could probably do like a quickening spell on that or something. I don't—
DM: he's a wizard, not a sorcerer. Yeah, so yeah, so you spend 11 minutes, you throw up the dome, everybody's in it at the time, and you can come and go if you want the fire to be in it. You can have the fire be in it.
Guntrah: I think you guys might want a little fire, a little roasty in there.
DM: I mean, it's It's temperature controlled, so it didn't have to be outside.
Guntrah: Oh, okay, so the fire could be outside.
Tito: Yeah.
Silas: And you can— so you can command the interior to become dimly lit or dark.
DM: So you can have it— You got a little dimmer switch on the inside of your dome?
Tito: Yeah. As soon as we're in there, I'm gonna go, oh fuck, oh shit, dude, it's a green dragon.
Silas: I know, I can't believe that. It smelled kind of funny, and all of a sudden the head came out and I was like, oh my gosh.
Tito: It's a little bit bigger than a dragon I've ever seen before.
Silas: Yeah, that was—
DM: Vrenn says, I can tell you from experience, if he was gonna kill us, he would have just bit our heads off.
Tito: He wouldn't have talked to us.
Silas: Oh no, I figured he would have Could have just killed us all very quickly.
DM: Yeah, yeah, trust me, if something that powerful wants you dead, you're just dead. If he kept us alive, it's because he wants something from us. So we are in a position— well, you are in a position of strength if you think about it.
Guntrah: Well, you're in a position of—
DM: oh, I'm gonna— yeah, I'm in a shitty position.
Guntrah: Are there any ideas to get you out of here?
DM: Well, I'm trying to think of a way to pit the dragon against the lich. Maybe if I'm lucky The lich will die and I can collect my token.
Tito: And I don't know, what's your token?
DM: Oh, that's the thing that he carries on his belt.
Tito: It's—
DM: he calls it a grave token. I don't know if you're familiar with the, um, the Nine Hells. They have these things called soul coins, and it's like when you own somebody's soul, it's physically manifested in a coin, and you— and it's a currency in the Hells. And that's— and he went down there and he learned all about it, and he wanted to bring that knowledge with him to the Abyss. And so he invented these things called Grave Tokens.
Tito: And I— oh well, I, I don't regret it, I suppose, but I was a fool and I did sell him my soul.
Tito: So—
Silas: So if you get that back, then you're back to—
Tito: I don't know.
DM: I don't know how it works, honestly.
Tavian: I'm—
DM: I don't know if I'm the one that destroys it, maybe I get my soul back.
Guntrah: Wait, why did you do it in the first place?
DM: He had my sister.
Tito: And—
Guntrah: So you traded yourself?
DM: I traded myself for her, yes.
Tito: Wow.
Tito: Would he keep treasures on him when he travels?
Tito: Would we be able to barter something?
DM: He's got, he's got the things he needs for his spellcasting, and he probably has money on him. But otherwise, I mean, he wears this particular amulet, amulet everywhere he goes. Um, I don't— if you're asking like anything about like his phylactery, I have no idea.
Tito: It would help in the bartering process for yourself tomorrow to pit them against each other if I could persuade The dragon to keep you alive until Morvek is summoned so he may claim greater treasure from you.
DM: Well, I mean, if he knows that a lich is going to be coming after me, he's not going— he's probably not going to accept me in this deal that you're making. He's probably going to want somebody else instead. Or you tell him something else, not necessarily a person.
Tito: Or we could just surprise him.
DM: Yeah, I mean, honestly, your best bet is just don't tell him anything about me and let him take me, and then You know, if Morvek shows up, great. If, you know, if not, I have a new master.
Tito: What's the deal?
Tito: I like that idea. I'm gonna get some rest. Hmm, Vrenn, you seem all too easy to leave the party. I just know that my fate is not my own, and I've come to accept that.
Tito: Okay, I'm going to sleep. Yep.
DM: Okay, uh, no elves, right? So nobody has to trance, everybody just sleeps properly, right? It's nice not to have to worry about that. Uh, the, the, uh, dome's only 8 hours anyway, right?
Tito: Yep.
DM: And we get to level up.
Tavian: Yes, sir. Yes.
DM: So yeah, you— since you are long resting for 8 hours in the dome, going to sleep, we'll say that you are leveling up and you will wake up, you know, at the crack of dawn. With the dome disappearing. So I'll give you guys a few minutes to do your level up.
Tavian: Yeah, I don't have to do anything, I— but I get Improved Divine Smite now.
Tito: That was money.
Tavian: Whenever you hit a creature, I get the 1d8 extra radiant damage. I don't have to use a spell slot.
Tito: Oh really? Yeah.
Tavian: You are so suffused with righteous might that your melee weapon strikes carry divine power with them.
Tito: You don't have to use a spell slot for any Divine Smite?
Tavian: No, for just a basic one. Any additional ones that I use then stack on top of it. Okay, but I basically get one free.
Guntrah: Level 11.
DM: Yeah, I think most classes, 11 is not a particularly big deal. Yeah, but I do think your cantrips get better.
Tavian: Yeah, yep, cantrips are better. I now have a 3rd 3rd level 3 spell slot.
Silas: Yep, I think I'm supposed to have like a level 6 spell slot now.
DM: Damn, you're getting close to being able to Plane Shift for yourself, like without needing a scroll or anything, because I think that's a 7th level spell.
Silas: Really?
DM: Yeah, that's a, that's a game changer when you can just come and go anywhere any day you want.
Tito: We are not.
DM: Well, I shouldn't say anywhere. You have to have the proper tuning fork for the plane that you want to go to, and they are kind of hard to come by.
Tito: Yeah, I don't get anything for level 11.
Guntrah: Manage spells. Spells known.
Tito: I can change my spells, but I'm not going to right now.
Guntrah: I can learn more spells.
Tavian: Efficiency bonus increased, it looks like.
Guntrah: Ooh, did it really?
Tito: I get +4 now.
DM: That's a big deal because that affects everything.
Silas: What, what happened?
DM: Your proficiency bonus goes from +3 to +4.
Tavian: I also need to roll a 1d6 for my Ring of Ram, see how many charges I get back. Fuck, just one.
Tito: Oh really? That's bad luck.
Guntrah: Okay, well, I can imbue up to a level 2 spell.
DM: Yeah, you have the option to change any of your infusions, but I don't think you get any new ones.
Guntrah: No, this only lets me store a spell in an item. Oh, that I can use as an action without using a spell slot.
Tito: That's awesome. I'm taking that. Okay, I just feel confused on this.
Guntrah: Okay, I'm gonna— I'm gonna go ahead and put Web into my axe so I can cast that for free.
Tito: You don't need that. It's an action.
DM: Um, and post-long rest, I'm gonna say you guys are basically out of water, so I don't— I wouldn't normally make that a part of the game, but because it was rela— like situationally relative to the place where you just were, I'm gonna make it so that you basically have to find a source of fresh water this next day, which he already told you there's rivers all over the place. We'll add a survival element to the game.
Tito: Why not?
Tavian: We're already crafting tents.
Guntrah: I can change spells, right?
DM: Um, that's class-based. I don't know about your class. What— and even if you can, it's usually limited to like one, unless you're a cleric. I think they can do any.
Tito: All right, I'm good.
DM: Still leveling up, Russ?
Tito: As we wake up in the morning, I'm Kind of practicing my performance techniques.
Silas: I take my pillow, I put it over my ears like, oh my gosh, come on, just 5 more minutes. I'm like, dude, I'm like, I act like I'm mad, but I go, that sounds awesome. I kind of give a little wink.
Tito: Just gotta practice the scales, dude. That sounds awesome.
Tavian: This was a really cool bridge in, uh, Portugal. It's made by Eiffel.
Tito: Oh really?
Tavian: Yeah, the Eiffel Tower. It's like very similar structure.
Tito: Wow, that's cool.
Tavian: Yeah, we were walking across it like up top. I don't know how many, like 100 feet or whatever it is, but there were kids jumping off into the water. Yeah.
Tito: Wow.
DM: I'll pause the session until— And here we go. Everybody's awake, everybody leveled up, right?
Tito: Correct.
DM: Okay, uh, so you wake up and your dome is gone, disappeared, uh, and you see the, the dragon is fully in the clearing with you guys now, standing barely 10 feet away, uh, and he is very large. Um, his head probably goes about halfway to the canopy up above, uh, when he's—
Tito: when he's standing fully upright.
DM: And, uh, so he, uh, he looks at you, uh, and he says, are you ready?
Guntrah: Morning, Ted.
Tito: Yes, good morning.
DM: He looks at me and says that? All of you guys.
Silas: Oh, okay.
Tito: Uh, he says, uh, I don't have patience for pleasantries.
Guntrah: Oh, sorry.
Silas: What about for pastries?
Tito: Do you have any pastries?
Silas: I do have—
Tito: what do you offer for our creature, our off-worlder?
Tito: Off-worlder? I will give you free passage to leave this wood wherever you choose, but you can keep your drow. I need you to take care of a nuisance of mine.
DM: Oh, um, I forget you guys all have poor, uh, passive perception, so I guess somebody do an active perception check for me.
Tito: He's got good—
DM: oh yeah, let me do for Vrenn. Vrenn's got good passive perception, plus he rolled really well.
Tito: 16.
DM: Uh, he got 24. Um, uh, I'm trying to think how he would indicate. He's, he's probably closest to you because he, he's kind of acting like you're the one who owns him right now, so he's probably gonna nudge you a little bit and just Look at his wing, look at his wing. Uh, and you look and you see that he has a wound on his wing. Uh, looks like it had torn and scarred over. It looks usable, but it doesn't look like he likes to use it. Like it would be painful for him to fly, um, but he could fly if he needed to. Um, so yeah, that might have something to do with why he's asking you to take care of something for him instead of doing it himself. Also might make him a little bit easier if you did get into a scuffle with him, but probably not. He'd probably still eat you all.
Tito: Tell me, creature, what is this nuisance?
Tito: To the north, about 6 miles at the edge of my domain, there is a crack in the ground. There are 2 beasts, monsters, I don't know what they are, but they are scavenging in my forest and retreating into their cave. I need them eliminated.
DM: Wait, do we see this damage to his wing? Yeah, uh, well, yeah, I guess you could— he'll— we'll just pretend you guys can all see it at that point.
Tito: Yeah, ask him why he just is doing this.
Tito: I'm going to use Persuasion.
DM: Okay, what are you asking him to do or not do?
Tito: This is—
Tito: you said the green dragon? I'm afraid that offer is not enough.
Tito: Okay, hold on a second.
Tito: Jesus.
DM: You're gonna make me pull open a stat block to see how badly you need to fail.
Tito: What are you doing, Tito?
Tito: I'm going to be using Bardic Inspiration on this roll as well, so I'm hoping for a really high roll here. I also have Silver Tongue, so any roll below a 10 counts as a 10.
DM: Counts as a 10, yep.
Tavian: And then you add your 12, and then I add my 12.
Silas: Okay.
Tito: Oh shit, plus the Bardic.
DM: Plus the Bardic, yeah. So a natural 1 still counts as a 10.
Tito: Correct. So stay away from a 1, and I should—
DM: well, no, even a 1 is okay.
Tito: With my Silvertongue, you'd say that?
DM: I'm pretty sure Silvertongue eliminates nat 1s.
Tito: I would, for the fun of the game, say no, it doesn't. Let's keep nat 1s at nat 1s and nat 20s at nat 20s.
DM: Come on.
Guntrah: No, it's mechanically against mechanics.
Tito: You can't— I like the idea of failing.
Tito: That's how we got in this situation, because Russ rolled a nat 1 on the first one.
DM: Yes, the Bard's Silvertongue feature effectively eliminates natural 1s on Persuasion and Deception checks by treating any d20 roll of 9 or lower as a 10. Okay, I mean, I'd say that because I played a Rogue once, and Rogues have a similar feature where, uh, I don't know if it's that— it's not Silvertongue, but it's something similar, and it's basically anything under a 10 counts as a 10, and it's the same mechanical stuff. I don't know, it might be Stealth. Yeah, I don't know.
Tito: So the lowest I can roll is a 23?
DM: Yes.
Tito: If I rolled a plus with my +12 and a 1 on my Bardic Inspiration?
Tito: Yes.
DM: And you would probably have figured out by this point, based on your limited interactions with him, but he is very difficult to persuade. And you, you feel like even though you were at the top of your game, it took the top of your game to persuade him previously. And you also know that dragons are Very good at negotiating. They're very charismatic, and they don't like to lose. Um, and the more you ask for, the harder it is going to be to persuade them. You're aware of all this?
Tito: I'll rephrase my questioning knowing that.
Tito: Yeah.
Tito: How many beasts did you say there were?
Tito: I know of 2, but there could be more.
Tito: I know dragons are keepers of great treasures.
Guntrah: Oh Jesus, is this even Tito's wheelhouse to act this way? Yeah, it sounds more like a Christian thing than—
Tito: I'm a drama I'm a drama artist, you know. I'm a dramatic, uh, performer. I'm a performer.
Tito: I don't get to perform very much.
DM: And you had a whole night to think about this and plan it.
Tito: Correct.
Tito: I will accept that deal for 2 beasts. However, if there is more than 2 beasts This deal will be need— will need to be renegotiated.
DM: Very well.
Tito: We will bring you the heads of all of the beasts.
Tito: I don't think you can carry their heads.
Tito: We will bring proof of the amount of creatures we have slain.
Silas: Oh, I think he'll know.
Tito: Uh, I will know if you do. I have ears and eyes all through the forest.
Tito: Very well, dragon. We will be on our way.
Guntrah: So no rolling, huh? Not gonna push your luck? All right.
Tito: Nah, I don't think so.
Tavian: Um, so I see his messed up wing though, right?
DM: Yeah, yeah, you guys all kind of see his wounded wing.
Tito: So as—
Tavian: so I walk up to him and just say, as a measure of good faith, and I just rest my hand on his wing and Light Hands and heal it.
DM: Let me see if he will actually let you touch him.
Tavian: I ask for his consent.
DM: He, he kind of hesitates a little bit, and you can see he's, he's not backing away, but he is kind of shifting his— like, he's tracking you with his face. Like, I'm gonna— like, if you do something, I will eat you.
Tavian: Like, anyone near me, we're incapable of being frightened, and I'm just—
DM: Oh yeah, yeah, you've got that.
Tito: Yeah, or of courage.
Tavian: Yeah, so I just, you know, with all goodwill.
DM: And what do you do exactly?
Tavian: Lay on Hands.
DM: Oh, just, just lay—
Tavian: he's trying to heal his wing.
DM: Okay, it's not— but it's scarred over. It's not like— oh, it's not a wound, it's not an active wound. Oh, so hit points aren't really gonna help. Um, I mean, if you don't want to do that, you don't have to do that because you can—
Guntrah: yeah, I mean, I was actually thinking in my brain, I was like, maybe my guy could probably mend it mechanically, like add to his wing.
DM: Um, yeah, maybe. I don't know, there might be some sort of mesh type of a thing you could do. I don't know, that'd be tricky. Would it take— would you be able to do this?
Tito: What's the time allotted that you could craft something quickly?
DM: Yeah, it would definitely take days for you to do something about it. And for starters, you know, even though it's, it's a, a small wound, it's on a very large dragon, so a small wound is still a large Sure. And it's not like a hole in his wing, it's just you see where it was probably like scraped through and then just knitted back together in a haphazard way.
Tito: Hey, Ted? Yes?
Guntrah: I noticed your wing over there.
Tavian: Yeah, I'm touching it.
Guntrah: My friend's touching, uh, uh, I'm a bit of a crafter. Um, I can't do it today, but Maybe I'll— I can work on something in the future, and if we ever come back through here, I can give you something to maybe patch that up.
Tito: You will not be here that long.
Guntrah: Yeah, but if I ever come back through, I can work on it, and then I'll have it, and then I can probably help you.
Tito: I'll consider it.
Guntrah: I'm actually pretty good at stuff. Watch this. And I like fly up in the air.
Tito: I'm like, see? Are you taunting me?
Guntrah: No, no, I'm saying like I can probably figure it out.
Tito: And you're saying I can't consider it?
Guntrah: Just, just, you know, trying to, trying to be friendly.
Tito: Yes, well, if you want to be in my good graces, you will do what I've asked you.
Guntrah: We'll do that for sure. Yeah, absolutely. I just, I was just thinking about it. I can already kind of see a design and maybe probably fix that. It's kind of what I do.
DM: Make a persuasion check. I'll— I'm gonna lower his threshold on this a little bit because you're not trying to—
Guntrah: It's not good.
DM: Deceive him in any way or anything.
Guntrah: Persuasion, it's only a 6.
DM: Oh, he doesn't seem that convinced that you can do what you say you can do.
Guntrah: Okay, well, hey, you know, just trying.
Tito: Just trying. Follow me.
DM: And he starts walking out of the clearing and making a very large path for you to follow.
Guntrah: To the north?
DM: Yes, it's a little bit, a little bit east and north, but mostly straight north.
Tito: All right guys, I guess as we're heading, does this clearing appear to be this dragon's dwelling?
DM: Part of it, yeah. He, he said that basically within 6 miles is his domain. So, um, we'll say that you know some rudimentary things about dragons and their— I know their lairs, you know, their treasure keepers. You know, they sleep on gold coins because it's good for their hygiene. Um, that's what I'm thinking. And you know that they again have essentially control of everything within a 6-mile range in terms of the critters and growth and stuff. And in fact, as you start following him through and you, and you pass through the, the open clearing into this, well, now mostly knocked-down brush Uh, you see that it's, it's a little bit twisted. Um, nothing grows particularly straight. There's some— a lot of vines. Some, some things have thorns and look like they might be poisonous. It's still a forest, but it looks like more of a corrupted forest than a true forest.
Tavian: Mm-hmm.
DM: Especially you, because you come from the Feywild and you're familiar with what a fey forest looks like and how healthy it is and free each plant is to do, you know, grow how it pleases.
Tito: And how many planes are there? There's Faerûn, the Feywild, there's the Abyss.
DM: There's more planes than we have time to talk about right now.
Tito: Oh, okay, so it's not like 3 or 5.
DM: There's, I don't know, not counting all of the various layers of the Abysses and Hells and all that, there's still—
Tito: Generic ones.
DM: At least a dozen.
Tito: Okay.
DM: Um, but yeah, so It's, it's weird that— and you can tell that it's the effect of this dragon that it has on this place. And that, that green mist that's on the ground in the grass does kind of permeate through the everywhere. It's not just in that clearing.
Guntrah: Who am I walking next to?
DM: Who do you want to walk next to?
Guntrah: What's your character's name?
Tito: Tavian.
Tavian: I'm leading my steed. I'm not on him, I'm just walking him.
DM: How long does he stay?
Tito: Indefinitely?
Tavian: Indefinitely, until zero hit points or I get rid of him.
Tito: Got it. Actually, Tavian, uh, I think this green mist is like his farts or something, or his B.O., or his essence. I mean, seems to be all over this place.
Tavian: I say, that's pretty funny, but I haven't taken a breath since, uh, we were down in the, uh—
Tito: Oh, you haven't breathed in any of this?
Tito: No.
Tito: Give it a sniff.
Guntrah: What does it smell like?
DM: Uh, smells like rock.
Silas: Dragon farts.
DM: So you guys just gonna follow him for a while then?
Tavian: Yeah, yeah, I'm just shuffling like a greased wheel.
Tito: Yes, but I am going to be perceptive the entire time in 2 different ways. I can roll if you'd like me to. One, I'm actively looking for treasures.
Tavian: Gosh, there's countless demiplanes, but 27 major planes.
DM: 27 major planes.
Guntrah: I'm gonna go—
Tito: There's something up with this dragon.
Tito: He's being—
DM: Are you talking to somebody?
Tito: No, I'm just telling you.
DM: You're telling me, okay.
Tito: I am perceiving any kind of deception.
DM: Okay, uh, I like misleading— you're perceiving a lot, you're on high alert. So if you need to do a perception check for backstabbery or something like that, I'll give you advantage.
Tito: Yes, so I can roll, and then also I will roll a separate perception for treasures.
Tavian: Wait, is Vrenn with us?
DM: Oh, you're, you're keeping an eye out for treasures?
Tavian: Correct.
DM: Yeah, Vrenn is with you guys.
Tito: Okay.
Tito: Oh yes, I know them. I know dragons in general.
Tito: Why would a rich kid be so worried about treasure? I don't know.
Tavian: That's what I was thinking. He's holding daddy's purse.
DM: Yeah, clearly it's not full.
Tito: Yeah, not as full as I'd like. I'm trying to make a name for myself.
DM: But, uh, you don't need to roll anything right now because nothing's happened.
Tito: Oh, okay, you're gonna tell me when.
Tito: Yeah, yeah.
Guntrah: Um, as we're walking, I'm just gonna go pull a latch and Ollie's gonna drop down.
Tito: I'm gonna go, buddy, stay next to me.
DM: So it's gonna walk next to you then?
Guntrah: Yeah, yeah, I want him active and walking next to me.
DM: Got it. Okay, all right, so you guys are marching behind him and, uh, and then it's— you're still very much in the thick of this woods, and he comes to a stop, and he says, uh, uh, this is as far as I'll go.
Tito: Uh, follow this fox.
DM: And, uh, you see a fox kind of hops out from the thicket and kind of stands next to the dragon for a second. Almost seems like he's not exactly enchanted, or maybe more of a mesmerization than an enchantment, like he's just kind of in awe of this dragon. Uh, and then he looks at you and he starts hopping, maybe a little bit too quickly to where you have to pick up your pace a little bit to keep up with this fox. And it does become, um, hard, uh, difficult terrain at this point because there's no more path for you. He turns off into a different direction, the dragon does, and walks away.
Guntrah: Hey, hey, Ted, before you go.
Tito: Yes?
Guntrah: So like, you didn't kill these things because— are they tough?
Tito: No, I could eat them if I chose.
Guntrah: Why didn't you?
Tito: Because I can't fit in the hole.
Guntrah: Oh, okay, it makes sense. You couldn't spray your Poison breath in there?
Tito: I have once.
Guntrah: Oh, so it goes pretty deep, huh?
Tito: I wouldn't know.
Guntrah: Okay. All right, well, all right, well, thanks.
Tito: Anything that I send in there gets eaten.
Guntrah: Okay, well, I was just curious. Just want some information. Thanks, Ted.
Tito: Uh, they are large.
Tito: Okay.
Tito: But they can fit in places I cannot.
Guntrah: Good to know. All right, well, hey, hey, buddy. Well, we'll see you on the other side, huh?
Tito: Look, you can't fit in the hole.
Tito: I—
Tito: again, when you come back out of the cave, I will have eyes and ears. I will see you, and they will escort you to me.
Guntrah: If we're in trouble, will you help us?
Tito: Probably not.
Guntrah: All right, well, hey, it's good to meet you. If I don't see you again—
Tito: Uh, likewise.
Guntrah: Appreciate it.
DM: See ya. Um, and yeah, so you guys have to pick up the pace to start running to keep up. Because you're, you're running into branches and— Our next party member is gonna be Ted.
Tito: As we get out of earshot of the dragon—
DM: This is not a smucker situation.
Guntrah: I think he's just— he's just—
Tito: did you try stabbing him?
DM: Yeah, that's how it works.
Silas: You want to try something different?
Guntrah: Hey, you interested in trying new things?
Silas: What?
DM: So you guys are running to keep up with this fox. Uh, it's a little difficult.
Tito: Okay, well, as we get out of earshot, I'm gonna use Universal Speech.
Guntrah: Okay.
Tito: And then first I will tell the fox to slow the fuck down.
DM: Um, how does Universal Speech work? Because they don't have a language.
Tito: As an action, choose 4 creatures within 60 feet. The chosen creatures, no language necessary, can magically understand you regardless of the language you speak.
DM: Oh, okay. I thought it was a spell you cast on yourself. You're casting a spell essentially on the box.
Tito: Not a spell.
DM: So it can hear you.
Tito: Yeah, it's not even a spell. It's a— oh, it's, it's an action part of my class.
DM: You can just make things understand you as part of your class?
Tito: Uh, once per long rest.
DM: Oh, okay.
Tito: For 1 hour only.
DM: Okay, for 1 hour and up to 4 creatures at once. There are other smaller, like, spells. But I'm just worried about this box.
Tito: Okay, so number one, I want the fox to slow down.
DM: Okay, so you— it doesn't have to slow down. He, uh, kind of pauses and kind of stands up and looks around and looks back at you like, oh my God, I can see for the first time in my life. And he kind of stares at you for a minute because he's, he's a stupid fox. He has no intelligence, but he can understand you. He kind of looks at you like, what's going on? This is a new experience.
Tito: I will, um, try to look as animalistic as possible. Maybe I'll hunch over a little bit because I do have goat horns and everything like that. And I'll just say, this, this terrain is difficult for my friends and I to traverse, and we want to get this done for your master. And I don't think he can speak back, but—
DM: No, he doesn't. He kind of cocks his head like an understanding and then just halves his pace.
Tito: Okay.
Tito: And then as we're walking along behind him, I will ask him Do you know where your master's treasures are?
DM: Again, he kind of pauses, cocks his head, and just kind of looks around. And he can't talk back to you, so he kind of just stands there like confused about it a little bit. You don't know that he doesn't know or that he does know. It just— you know that he— you realize you've asked a question that he can't really answer properly.
Tito: Dude, we're not worried about the fucking treasure. Very well.
Guntrah: Why are you so worried about the treasure, Moneybags?
Tito: I want to get rich.
Guntrah: Yeah, I want to get out alive.
Tito: This dragon likes us, man. Especially likes Vrenn over here.
Tavian: We gotta, we gotta touch base with Dr. Voss, I would think. She's gotta be wondering where the hell we are. We went into some office and then just vanished.
Tito: Man, we're big time now. We don't have to answer to nobody. It's our mission.
Tito: We're on to something. Let's follow the fox.
Guntrah: And, um, trees just tall on everything here eventually.
DM: Uh, yeah, um, it doesn't really seem any different. Maybe a little bit slightly less twisted the further you go. Uh, his influence is, is strong, and it does weaken the further it goes away from him, or more specifically, from his lair. So yeah, the fox does eventually start hopping again, again at half pace, uh, so you guys are even more easily able to keep up with him. And eventually the, the— it does start to thin out a little bit as you go, uh, and it starts to feel a little bit more normal. There is still an element of corruption, but it's, it's definitely much weaker now. And then, um, Vrenn is with you, and, uh, he kind of pauses. He's like, oh, stop this. This actually seems really familiar.
Tito: I, I think we're close.
DM: I think, I think this is where I— oh my God, it's the same! It's the same, same cave.
Tito: You came out of that cave?
DM: So yeah, well, that was— gosh, that was probably almost 10 years ago that I did that, and I don't recall I mean, maybe the dragon was here and I just didn't go further. Yeah, I don't know. Either way, I can assure you that there were no creatures guarding the exit to that cave.
Tito: I just ran right in.
DM: It's been 10 years, so—
Tavian: So he—
Tito: do we see the cave and that's why he gets familiar with this, or—
DM: The, the vegetation, the, like, the landscape, everything starts to, like, feel just a little bit familiar to him at this point. And it— he— you feel like he's confident enough that he could probably take you the rest of the way to the cave now. Because he knows whereabouts you guys are.
Tito: If— as soon as he says that, I kind of shift. I was probably closer to following this fox since I was talking to him as we approached it.
DM: Yeah, and you're— you've been traveling now for, oh gosh, actually probably over an hour because it's 5 miles.
Tito: Okay, well then, yeah, through thick vegetation.
DM: So you can't speak to the fox anymore.
Tito: I will, um, kind of discreetly make my way Behind Tavian in the pecking order.
DM: Okay, so Tavian is in front and you're gonna be behind him?
Tito: Correct.
Tito: Anybody else can be wherever they want.
Guntrah: I was to the side of Tavian.
Tito: I've been kind of hiding behind Tavian. He's dumb, he doesn't really know what's going on.
DM: So, okay, so you eventually get far enough, uh, and you can see that there is an incline up ahead, still within the forest. It's not outside of the forest, but there's an incline in Um, oh, I forgot. And you did, um, just before now, you did have to cross a stream. Maybe a little bit more than a stream, kind of a river. So you can have a moment to fill your water skins, to, to top those off since they're empty.
Tito: How much do they hold? I don't know, 4 liters or something.
DM: Normally I wouldn't care, uh, I just— I'm doing this one time because you guys depleted your water sources while you were in the Abyss. Um, but yeah, so you did, you did have to cross the stream. I'm just thinking of my map and geographic So, uh, and then you come to this incline on the other side of the, of the river or stream or whatever, and you see there is a— it's not, it's not really a crack, like it's almost a full-blown cave. It's a, it's a large opening.
Tavian: A fissure.
DM: Similar— oh no, it was your other characters that did the owlbear thing, wasn't it? Okay, so these characters wouldn't know that then. But yeah, it's, it's a, it's a large opening. Um, it does seem like it would be way too tight of a squeeze for a dragon, but Something slightly smaller than a dragon could fit through easily. You don't see any creatures, you don't see any— well, actually, one thing you do see, there are— there's a decent number of bones on the ground outside the cave, but you can also see a little bit into the cave and you can see there's bones inside as well, and along with, you know, reddish, you know, splatters and whatnot. Also, I would say you can see scraping marks. The cave entrance is probably about 15-ish feet high, maybe 20, and it kind of comes to a point, and you can see the further up it goes, it kind of like the rock has been scraped with something that has been going in and out of the cave and just grinding along the, the rock. It's not, it's not a lot, but it's a little bit noticeable. Okay, well, and the fox stops. It's not going any closer.
Tito: Does anybody—
DM: yeah, like sits there like perched up like it's waiting for you guys.
Guntrah: You guys think— does anybody have anything they can maybe toss in there or cast in there that'll drive them out?
Tito: I could—
Silas: I could send my, my hawk in to see if we can see what's in there.
Guntrah: Does your hawk have night vision?
Tito: I would think so. It's a hawk. Yeah, yeah, yeah, they're called Hawkeyes, aren't they?
Guntrah: Yeah, yeah, it's like you can see precisely.
DM: Yeah, right. Maybe more owl.
Tito: I mean, I can use—
DM: You have a thing with you you can send in there.
Tito: Yeah, I'm gonna turn my steed in.
DM: You can send that in too.
Tito: Yeah, I can—
Guntrah: no, hawks don't have night vision.
Tito: I can say a booming voice in there. I can throw a little bit of fire in there.
Tavian: Neither does my— Steed doesn't have—
DM: We'll say at this point you guys are maybe 50 feet from the entrance.
Tito: Actually, I'm gonna use Persuasion.
Silas: Okay.
Tito: And I'm going to send your little robot in.
DM: Send Vrenn.
Silas: Just send a little robot in.
Tito: That would be funny.
DM: I will, um, actually he might have a spell That will work in the situation.
Tito: Not quietly, but like quietly, but not— I'm not trying to be secretly, but since I'm kind of off to the side behind Tavian, I'll just, uh, give him like a tap on the shoulder and I'll say, for glory, and kind of nudge him forward.
Silas: Glory.
Tito: He's like, yeah, for glory.
Tavian: I shrug and move in.
Tito: He doesn't even— he first went, those are the magic words.
Tito: For glory!
Tito: Yeah, he unsheathes his sword and it radiates with glowing radiant light.
DM: Okay, yeah, so Vrenna's gonna say, hold on, hold on, hold on, do you want to just be invisible? Or do you want to just go in as you are?
Tavian: Well, invisibility sounds pretty cool.
DM: All right, uh, he walks over and he casts invisibility on you and only you.
Tito: You and only you.
DM: Actually, I forgot to long rest him.
Tito: Why didn't he cast it on all of us before?
DM: He did. He can, but You guys were sending one person in, so there's only casting on one.
Guntrah: No, no, I didn't agree to one person.
Tito: I didn't agree to that either. I, I was telling him to lead charge and I was gonna follow him.
DM: Oh, we're, we're all going in?
Tito: Yeah, yeah, um, if these monsters are tearing up, we all gotta go, man.
Tito: We're gonna get— wait, can we just throw a torch in?
Tito: Yeah, you have a level 15 torch though.
Guntrah: Yeah, but like, it might draw them out.
Tito: Puddle jumper?
Tito: Yeah, we can puddle jump in.
Silas: I could, I could do, uh, I could send— I can do like a Minor Illusion or something in there.
Tito: Yeah, I mean, I can, I can cast— yeah, same thing. So I can cast, um, or I can just light a torch, throw a torch in there.
DM: To what gain? What are you trying to get?
Tito: Is it dark in there?
DM: It is very dark in there. I mean, not in the entrance, but the further you go, yeah.
Tito: So we are going to need some sort of light source.
Guntrah: Well, I can see in the dark.
DM: Yeah, I was gonna say, I— Vrenn's like, I can see in the dark fine.
Tito: You can't see in the dark?
Silas: I can see in the dark.
Tito: I can't see in the dark.
DM: That's unfortunate.
Guntrah: Do you see in the dark?
Tavian: Yeah, 60 feet.
Guntrah: So the only one who can't see in the dark is you, which, uh, kind of tells me I should probably There's a spell I can prepare for you in the future.
DM: Let me, let me see how many people I can make invisible. Yeah, 1 creature for each spell slot above level 2, and there's 5 people, so he can only make 4 people invisible.
Tito: I can cast it on myself.
Tavian: He doesn't necessarily need to go with us if he wants to stay back.
Guntrah: I want to let those happen.
Tito: Who, Vrenn or me?
Guntrah: Vrenn, in the future I can turn— I can cast Darkvision on you.
Tito: Why don't you cast it on me now?
Guntrah: I don't have it prepared.
Tito: Oh, we should get used to not having Vrenn around since we're donating.
Tito: He's not, he's staying with us.
DM: Yeah, um, no, but he was part of the deal. Ted said—
Guntrah: No, the deal is kill these guys.
Tito: Oh yeah, Ted said if we kill him then we can keep—
DM: Oh, you keep the drow and you do this instead.
Tavian: Oh, that's right, that's right.
DM: Mr. Persuasion over here.
Tito: Yeah, I mean, if you guys want to be sneaky, I can go invisible and just kind of blindly go in there and hold on to somebody, but the second shit hits the fan, I'm throwing torches in every direction.
DM: I mean, I, I don't know how you want to approach this. I could, I could summon a fiend and send him in there, but I don't know, as a scout or as a lure? I can cast Dancing Lights.
Guntrah: How far can you send them?
Tavian: For glory!
Tito: Yeah, we gotta take care of this.
DM: 120 feet.
Tito: Send it in.
Tito: I say we just go in.
Tito: We'll alert whatever's in there.
Tito: Well, we gotta alert it anyways. Oh yeah, we can send them in.
DM: Oh, so we are going to do the invisibility?
Guntrah: Invisibility plus Dancing Lights 120 feet ahead of us. Yeah, I think that's the move.
Tito: Or keep them spread out so it lights in a pretty—
DM: Uh, I think he gets 3 of them if I'm not mistaken. Yeah, up to 4. Create 4 torch-sized lights within range, making them appear as torches lanterns or glowing orbs. Yeah, uh, you can also combine them into one medium-sized vaguely humanoid light source. He can move the lights up to 60 feet into a new spot within range as a bonus action. Okay, a light must be within 20 feet of another light created by the spell, so they can't spread out more than 20 feet apart.
Tito: That's okay, you can make a chain light. Yeah, okay, so I will cast Invisibility on myself.
Guntrah: Okay, I think he has invisibility for all of us, right?
DM: Well, he can only do 4. He can do himself plus 3 others with a 7th level spell. Okay, because it's for each upcasting above 2. So 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. Oh no, you're right, 7. Yeah, so he can, he can cast it on 5 people. You don't have to do it.
Tito: Okay, sweet.
DM: Okay, so he will cast invisibility at the 7th level, and there goes his only other—
Tito: only 7th level spell slot.
DM: And everybody's invisible, and he's gonna throw some Dancing Lights. He actually is gonna do it in reverse order. Oh no, he can't, because Dancing Lights is a cantrip— or I'm sorry, is a concentration.
Guntrah: They're both concentration?
DM: Yes, he does have the Light spell, but that's— you light something up and then somebody has to throw it in there, and it doesn't move. It stays where it lands unless it's something that does move and he casts Light on it. My steed, which already lights itself anyway, right? But then your steed would die.
Tavian: That's fine. Well, he doesn't actually die die.
DM: I don't know that he's gonna die. You're just gonna throw him in there into a monster's den.
Tavian: Unusually intelligent, strong, and loyal. So it is a celestial. I don't know that it glows or anything on its own. It's just that I summon a spirit.
DM: Okay, so if that's what you want to do, he won't need to cast invisibility on everybody. He can just cast light on something like a steed, then that can just walk in there and it'll be the light source.
Guntrah: Okay.
DM: And with, with it powered up with the light spell, I think it's— it can be extra bright, so it can light up more than just 10 feet. Let me see, uh, 20 foot around it is bright light, and then an additional 20 feet around that is dim light.
Tito: Okay.
DM: And it can be made a color. If you want a faint blue light, you can do a faint blue light.
Tavian: Nice. I like it.
DM: So no invisibility, or yes? Because we can— he can do invisibility and that.
Guntrah: I think both.
DM: Yeah, I think both is the move.
Tito: Okay, so he'll cast Light on your steed, he casts invisibility on all 5, and then I just need to stay within sight range of that steed so I can see?
DM: Well, even if you're not near it, you can see what is near it. You could be in the pitch black dark and you can still see it a little ways away.
Tito: Yeah, yeah.
Tavian: And I communicate telepathically with it, so I see what it sees while it's way up front, regardless of like what Witcher sees. What's your steed's name?
Tito: Roach.
DM: Good luck, Roach. The horse in The Witcher? Yeah, I forgot about that.
Guntrah: I'm gonna walk up to Roach and be like, good luck, Roach.
Tavian: I just started replaying Red Dead Redemption 2 and named that horse Roach.
Tito: Nice.
Tito: Yeah, I will, um, Um, just— I'm going to ready just in case. I will have it in my hand, my bullseye lantern.
DM: Okay, which is going to be completely covered, but when you want to open it, you can, right?
Tito: I mean, I can light it if need be.
DM: I would, I would recommend pre-lighting it and then just keeping the hood on it so that it doesn't emit any light until you want to use it. Then you take the hood off completely for a bright light or take off a flap so that it shines like more of a spotlight.
Tito: Okay, that's a deal.
Tito: Okay, okay.
DM: So, uh, the horse goes in first and you can see what it sees, right?
Tito: Yeah.
Tavian: Okay, or I can communicate with it.
DM: Oh, you can't see through its eyes?
Tito: Okay. I just communicate.
DM: And does it communicate words or just more of like feelings?
Tavian: Just, um, I can— we communicate with each other telepathically is all it says.
DM: Okay, so we'll say it's intelligent.
Tito: It can basically speak to Yeah, yeah.
DM: Um, okay, so I'm scared.
Silas: His name is Mr. Ed.
DM: Uh, so Roach walks in first, glowing like a bright light and showing no fear at all. Uh, he trots right in. Uh, is he loud or is he pretty quiet? Roach, is it—
Tavian: he's a, he's a large beast, a warhorse, but he's spectral.
DM: He's not physically present, right?
Tito: I guess that's true.
Tito: Yeah. I would assume he's quiet but still shining bright.
Tavian: Yeah, it has the statistics of a chosen form, though it is a celestial fey or fiend. So the form is— I pick a warhorse, a pony, camel, elk, or mastiff, and I'm going warhorse.
Tito: Okay.
DM: Um, and I don't know if there's any way of finding out what its vision is.
Tavian: I have all that pulled up.
DM: Warhorse's vision.
Tito: Yeah, so like speed is 60, 20/20, passive perception is 11.
Tavian: Okay, I guess I don't have—
DM: it doesn't have darkvision?
Tito: No.
Tavian: Okay, like that.
DM: Okay, so, uh, you send the steed in, uh, it enters into the darkness. Um, it— the first thing it notices is that there is running water in here. Um, it's Would be an underground river, except that you're kind of going downhill a little bit. So it is a little bit underground as a river. Um, and you see that there are some glowing mushrooms in here scattered around this room. It is very, very cavernous. It's very large. Um, and I apologize if I didn't specify, it does— you do have to go down probably 40 feet down a fairly narrowish, you know, 10-foot-wide path, and it looked like maybe 15 to 20 foot high. Uh, area. Anyway, so you go down about 40 feet and the horse will come into this cavern, and there's some, some rivers in here, some glowing mushrooms. Um, it doesn't immediately see anything, uh, just kind of knows like, oh my gosh, this is kind of cool, there's this big underground cavern with, you know, with stuff. Uh, it can keep— it can kind of just pick and choose how it goes. Lots of stalactites and stalagmites in here.
Tito: So Sweet.
DM: But yeah, it can just kind of wander around. Is there like— how do you want to control its movement in here?
Tavian: Just having it move at a steady pace forward until anything alarming triggers it. Though I am taking note of the running water, and Tavian would like to like fill up his pitcher or whatever.
DM: Oh, well, you guys had an opportunity to do that In the creek before you got here.
Tito: Oh shoot, okay, gotcha.
Guntrah: Can I prepare an action?
DM: Uh, yeah.
Guntrah: So I'm just gonna prepare to cast my stored-up Web spell as soon as danger presents itself. So if a creature comes out, I want to cast Web. Got it, okay.
DM: Um, so yeah, Roach keeps going. Uh, eventually he's forced to like walk around things because there's, there's still like— which one's on the ground?
Tavian: Mites.
DM: There's stalagmites all over the ground, and, uh, some of them are pretty large. They get to be 10 feet high, uh, to where you can't just, you know, climb over them.
Tito: I want to shoulder him and be like, can you tell him to like neigh a little bit?
Tito: I mean, we do need to draw these people out. We got to take care of it.
Guntrah: It's a big area, so it's not that bad.
Tavian: I mean, we're invisible, but I'm clunky.
DM: Are you guys following it, or is it by itself?
Tito: No, we're following.
DM: We're all kind of— everybody's now at this At this point, it's going to be— how far were you following it behind?
Tavian: Let's say we're within like the 10-meter, 10-foot, uh, we're still on the path.
DM: It's like the 40-foot decline.
Tavian: Yeah, it's ventured out into the cavernous opening. Yeah, navigating stalagmites.
DM: Okay, got it. So you guys will say you've, you've just reached basically the opening of the cavern. So you can kind of— those of you with darkvision can see it pretty clearly. Uh, it looks like it has maybe 50, 40, 40 to 50-ish foot ceilings. Uh, you're basically going under, underground, under this hill, and it's this, you know, entrance to what's essentially the Underdark. Uh, and Vrenn, this is exactly where he came through, so he's very familiar with this spot as well. Uh, and he can see perfectly fine, so he's kind of up front. He's not too particularly afraid. Um, and at this point, Roach is probably about halfway through the cavern.
Tavian: And, um, yeah, I just tell them to like use a hoof and kick a stalagmite just to like get like an echo.
DM: Got it, got it. So yeah, so it does that. Um, and you— what is your guys's darkvision distances?
Tito: 60.
DM: 60.
Guntrah: Pretty sure it's right on Where is that at? Languages, tools.
Silas: On the— at least on this one, it's on the—
Tavian: it's under senses, like the passives.
Silas: Yeah, mine's just on where the saving throws are. This is right underneath there. Darkvision 60 feet, but I don't know if that's the same on the—
Tito: 60 feet.
Tito: 60. Okay.
DM: Uh, yeah, so you guys don't— you hear everything that happens. You can see the glowing horse. It's got a faint pale blue light. And you can see a little bit of the area around it, including all the stalagmites that's been kind of walking around. You can even kind of faintly see maybe a little bit of the river off to the left side of it. And you can see some of the glowing mushrooms kind of in pockets, you know, reasonably close to you. But you can't see the other side of this cavern and like the edges and the corners because your darkvision is not quite that good. But when he kicks that rock— Or stalagmite, and it does echo. It just bounces all around, and it seems way louder than you're expecting because of the echo. And then you hear some shuffling and some very loud, deep baritone groaning, but you can't see what it's doing. And then what is—
Tito: Hold on.
DM: Let me just look up warhorse just so I have all the data myself.
Tavian: Is there an easy way for me to send you? I just have them pulled up on D&D Beyond.
DM: Yes, I got it too.
Tito: All right, cool.
DM: Okay, so it's got armor 11— armor class 11, hit points 19, speed 60, blah blah blah. Yeah, it's not like buffed. That's—
Tavian: no, no, it's not super strong, but it can attack.
Guntrah: Got it.
Tavian: Separately from me.
Tito: Yeah. Got it.
Tito: Uh, did you take the Mounted Combat feat?
Tavian: Not yet. That might be my next, like, feat option.
Tito: Yeah, I would do that.
Tito: Yeah, that, and then like Polearm Master, so you have extended witness.
DM: Sorry, I have a little bit of maintenance to do real quick.
Tavian: It's like an AI, like always listening, remembers everything.
Tito: Sentient.
Guntrah: You know, computer's juicing up.
DM: Yeah, I don't know why, uh, clicking too fast, I guess. This thing has powerful fans and it's obnoxious. Not as obnoxious as the one I gave you though.
Tito: Yeah, but that thing gets hotter than fuck.
DM: It's a laptop.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Kills your legs.
Tito: Yeah, if you let it— yeah, I have to put it on a table. I can't let it sit on my legs because my thighs will be on fire.
DM: Yep. Um, so yeah, um, all of a sudden you can see, uh, through It's like a horror movie, right?
Tito: You can see that—
DM: you can see this little ball of light with this horse at the center, and you hear this groaning. And all of a sudden, at the edge of this light, you see this extremely large creature come in with this massive club and just crack the top of the horse right on— right on the saddle, essentially. Um, I don't think he dies though.
Tito: Jesus.
DM: Uh, no, he's got 5 hit points left. He went from 19 down to 5.
Tito: You took 14 damage.
DM: Uh, and, uh, yeah, so I don't know how— if we should just roll initiative and just— because you guys are really far away. Um, or if you want to just have the horse do something like run back to you.
Tavian: Yeah, I just think I'm like, Roach, return!
DM: Okay, so yeah, instinctively, as soon as— like almost as soon as he can see it, he starts maneuvering away. He just had a really good attack roll though, so he took the damage. He was running back to you, and it goes back to being pitch black in the distance. And yeah, I guess we can just roll initiative, although you don't know where they are.
Tavian: I don't know if we want to— do we want to roll it if we're still like 60+ feet out from them?
Guntrah: How far away from the horse?
DM: You were— I don't have the distances measured out properly, but I would say you were probably about 60 feet away.
Guntrah: Okay, so then when the club hit, the character was in range?
DM: Uh, yeah, you would have momentarily have seen it.
Guntrah: Yeah, that would trigger my web spell.
DM: Oh, it has a range? Oh, okay. All right, so yeah, as your, as your prepared action, trigger your web spell.
Guntrah: It's a Dex 18.
DM: Oh, so saving throw. Got it.
Tito: It's like a web, like a Spider-Man.
DM: Oh, so you got him, you webbed him. What does that do?
Guntrah: Okay, you conjure a massive sticky web at a point within range. The web fills a 20-foot cube there for the duration. The webs are difficult terrain and the area within is slightly obscured. Uh, webs are anchored between 2 masts.
Tito: Doesn't matter.
Guntrah: Webs layered from that first time creature enters the webs on turn or start its turn, it succeeds at a dexterity saving throw or is restrained. So it's restrained.
DM: Okay, it's restrained. Now, does— is there a size limit to the creature?
Tito: No.
DM: Any size?
Guntrah: A creature restrained by the webs can take an action to make a Strength check against the webs. The webs are flammable. Any 5-foot cube web exposed to fire burning away one round, dealing 1 point to any creature. So basically, like It's restrained. It can take an action to try to get out of it. Yep. Uh, webs are flammable, so if someone lights it on fire, it takes an additional 2d4 fire damage.
Tito: God dang, we gotta talk about this.
DM: It's just so much easier if you guys can see what we're talking about.
Tito: We're gonna strategize. We could have comboed that.
Guntrah: Well, I'm about to shout something out, but if you flame it, it's unrestrained. So it's like you can either be restrained—
Tito: Well, I'm not gonna play this.
Tavian: I assume Roach is kind of stuck in the web as well, unless he has to roll his own saving throw.
Tito: He probably is stuck in the web. But can I use my action as well and unsheathe my light?
DM: Uh, or use— because I think he had it prepared, so that's why I let him do that one. So I would say once we— I'm gonna have us do initiative now.
Guntrah: Um, yeah, no one's prepared an action besides me, right?
Tavian: Oh fuck, I forgot my whole box of minis on Octavian.
Tito: Oh, you don't?
Tito: No.
DM: Oh, uh, so we'll have it. Can you scoot all your stuff towards you a little bit?
Tito: Yeah, let's get that shit out of the way. That's good.
Silas: Is it? Is it good? Good for who?
DM: This is not my best work because it's AI slop and it did the grid not perfect squares, but that's okay.
Tito: It should work.
Tito: Looks cool and it's laminated. Did you get a laminator?
Tito: I do have a laminator. Oh.
DM: I've been laminating for days. But no, so this is where you guys are and I kind of decided that the horse was going this way, so it's going to have been somewhere around this area.
Tito: Nice. Oh, we need minis. Expecto Patronum!
Guntrah: Is that a flame spell?
Tito: No, that's my light spell.
DM: Here's an orc charger.
Tito: Orc charger!
DM: And I think this is a different kind of orc.
Silas: We just put our people on there.
DM: So if you've got a person, yeah. Oh, so which one of these do you want, Miles?
Tito: I don't care.
Tito: Okay, this one's cooler.
DM: I'm good with that one. Uh, and then I need one for Vrenn.
Tito: What is Vrenn again?
DM: I need like a paladin. Drow wizard. You need a paladin and a horse.
Tito: I need a horse.
Tavian: Actually, I think my—
Tito: I need a horse.
DM: I can see better in here. I'm gonna do it in here.
Tito: Got one restrained.
Tito: I know I have Hold Person too. We could have comboed that together, or we could have comboed the Fireball thing together.
Guntrah: It's only 2d4 fire damage, so it's not like a lot.
Tito: Yeah, but with the damage of my Fireball, I have 11d6.
Silas: Damn.
Guntrah: 33 damage.
Tito: I found another cool orc.
DM: You use a sword?
Guntrah: I use an axe.
Tito: You already have an orc for him out.
DM: I know, I just found one that I like.
Tito: Yeah, my spells are starting to hit hard. Blight is 10d8 necrotic. Chromatic Orb is 8d8, which can bounce too.
Tito: Wow, this guy's like mouth is quite cavernous for a little mini.
DM: Whoa, Christian, you've already got one, right?
Tito: Yep. Okay, why, you have a Satyr in there?
Tito: No, something like the Glory.
Tavian: Anything with like a shield and sword would be cool.
Guntrah: You guys don't think this game's kind of gay?
DM: What's that?
Tito: This game's kind of gay, I'm gonna stop playing. Yes.
DM: All right, uh, this is Vrenn, this little blue wizard dude. Uh, that's the only paladin-looking thing I could find right away. No shield though.
Tito: That's fine.
DM: Uh, what am I missing?
Tavian: The bad guys.
DM: 1, 2, 3, 4, it should be 5. Oh, you've got that.
Tavian: Okay, good.
Tito: So just the bag and a horse if you got one. I guess something for Ollie too, I'm sure.
Guntrah: Oh yeah, Ollie.
DM: Oh yeah, uh, what did I use last time?
Tavian: I used a spider.
Guntrah: Oh, okay.
Tavian: But I don't have any of mine. I forgot.
Tito: All right.
Tavian: Placing food orders.
DM: I was walking out the door and forgot. I've got some in the top of this other case too.
Tito: I had a little metal thing.
DM: Oh, here it is. I had the metal dog thing and I had the metal soldier thing. I think the last— we'll use the little metal guy for him.
Tito: Ollie?
DM: That's Ollie.
Silas: Ollie, Ollie, I'll come for you.
Tito: Okay, and then— okay.
Silas: Whoa, shit, that's like a GI Joe action figure.
DM: What's going on?
Tito: I got the tape out, I didn't even take it down.
Silas: I mean, let's look, let's compare the difference.
Tito: Like that to that.
DM: I told you he was big.
Silas: Uh, yeah, so my guy sees this big guy and he like does this. He gets up, he gets up on his tippy toes to try to look a little bit bigger. Yes, he's like, see, I'm big too.
Tito: That dude is the size of the fucking web. Like, there's no way.
Tito: Yeah, he's webbed up.
DM: His feet are all webbed up.
Guntrah: That's an expensive mini right there.
DM: It was like maybe $4, maybe $5.
Silas: They call him a Maxi.
DM: He's called a Fomorian.
Silas: Fomorian Maxi.
Tavian: Fomorian.
Tito: There's only one?
DM: He's a huge giant chaotic evil. No, there's another one, you just can't see him yet.
Tito: Oh, awesome.
Silas: All right, so really the dragon was just like, I'll kill these guys.
DM: Well, the dragon's bigger than they are.
Silas: But he's just like, that's gonna get ourselves killed, basically.
Tito: It's like, yeah, just—
DM: And I don't, I don't picture them quite that big. I mean, the figurine is gigantic, but I think in actuality they're probably not quite that big.
Guntrah: It's like 18 feet tall.
DM: Well, that's bigger than 18, isn't it?
Guntrah: I mean, like, the satyr's 6 foot, maybe 3 satyrs are about as tall as he is.
DM: Oh yeah, I guess, I guess 20-ish feet, but he's very hunched over. Yeah, I don't know what the actual— it doesn't say.
Tito: Good posture.
DM: Yeah, um, but yeah, so it is a hideous and wicked giant type of creature called a Fomorian whose bodies reflect their vile demeanor. They have facial features randomly distributed around misshapen, warty heads, limbs of grossly different shapes and sizes. Uh, yeah, I'm not going to tell you any more than that yet. You know a bit about them though because these are fey creatures. Are former fey creatures, so you would probably have learned a little bit. Maybe you heard, you know, nighttime bedtime stories about Fomorians coming and crushing you, like Jack and the Beanstalk type situation. Um, so you know that their origin was that they were cursed fey creatures. They actually tried to rule the entire fey realm when they— before they looked like this. The Fomorians were, uh, among the most handsome of races, possessing brilliant minds and unrivaled magical abilities, but When they decided they wanted to rule the Feywild, all the other races in the Feywild decided, fuck no, you can't control us. And they banded together and defeated them, cursing them in the process and turning them into these.
Tito: Hell yeah.
DM: So that's the short version. Um, and now they— yeah, they randomly— or they rarely show up above ground. They, they generally like to stay in there, in their under Uh, what's called the Underdark areas. So yeah, uh, I don't have a character for your horse.
Tavian: Uh, no, it's all right. He'll either die soon or I will, uh—
DM: Well, it's a light source and that's kind of important, right? Because without him, I don't think some— I think, Christian, you can't see very well, right?
Tito: Correct.
DM: Uh, okay, temporarily this is Roach. Roach has 2 heads. Okay, uh, yeah, we'll say, uh, he was right there when he got smacked and he's looking to run back to you. Uh, but did he get webbed?
Silas: Was he— how—
DM: what's the rate?
Guntrah: Oh, sorry, he got webbed. He's gonna do a DC 18.
DM: Yeah, do a d20 and then he's got a dex minus or plus 1.
Tavian: That's a 4.
DM: He's webbed too.
Tavian: All right, but at least we can see the enemy.
DM: Yeah, he's, he's a little beacon right there. He's lighting everything up right now.
Guntrah: So now we do initiative?
DM: Yeah, everybody roll initiative.
Tavian: Okay, we're gonna place exactly right here.
DM: Uh, yeah, everybody needs to, to line up in this, uh, this area back here.
Tito: I rolled an 11.
DM: Hold those numbers, I'm not quite ready yet.
Tito: 58.
Tavian: So I would have been near the front. Um, you were near me.
Guntrah: Yeah, I was like side by side with you.
Tito: Yeah, here. So yeah, up there.
Tavian: You were close.
Guntrah: Vrenn was probably behind me or next to me.
Silas: I'm back here.
Tito: I don't want to get too close.
Tavian: You're probably in front of Vrenn, maybe. Or if it's 10 by 10, we'll put you guys right next to each other. So we've got, yeah, 2, 2, and 2 here.
Tito: We're like, oh crap.
DM: All right, let me get the order.
Tito: Well, you know, I guess it can't be particularly bad. I'll form the phalanx. Hold the line, Spartans. Hold the line. That's not what I wanted to do.
Tito: Have you upgraded to iOS 27?
Silas: On? On your MacBook.
DM: No. All right. I need to also add Vrenn.
Tito: I don't know.
Guntrah: I'm mostly in a terminal every day. It doesn't really matter.
Tito: It's all the same.
Tavian: Gotcha.
DM: Okay, now I'm ready for initiatives. Gun.
Tito: 15. 15.
DM: Silas?
Tito: 13.
Tito: Tavian?
Tito: 15.
DM: What's your horse's initiative? Does it follow you?
Tavian: Yeah, I just put it with me.
Tito: All right. And same with Tito's?
Tito: Same with Ollie.
DM: Ollie shares yours too?
Tito: Okay.
DM: I'm not gonna put him, um, in the order. You'll just have to do him as part of the end of your turn. I probably shouldn't have even put the horse in there, but I did. Uh, Tito, what's your initiative?
Tito: 11.
Tito: 11. Damn. Vrenn, what is Vrenn's bonus initiative? I think it's a good bonus. Vrenn and Stimpy.
DM: Did you say Vrenn and Stimpy?
Silas: Yeah.
Tito: He has 14. Vrenn and Stimpy. Or stubby.
DM: Vren and stubby.
Silas: Somebody's gonna be stubby eventually.
Tito: Okay, I'm gonna name these different so that I can keep track of myself easier.
DM: The one you can see is going to be clubby.
Silas: Clubby.
Tito: Clubby the Familiar. Okay, all right, um, welcome to the Clubby house.
DM: Clubby got an 11, so he does not get to go yet. Uh, Gunn, you're up first actually.
Guntrah: Okay, um, I'm gonna fly up to the ceiling.
Tito: Actually, do you get the 2 tiebreaker?
Tavian: I don't know if this, uh, affects you and your flight distance, but you do get a bonus in movement. Movement, because you're right next to me.
Guntrah: It's the same as movement. Okay, I'm gonna fly up.
Tavian: You get +10.
Guntrah: Actually, so I could fly up to the ceiling, just 40 feet, right? That's what you said.
DM: Uh, yes, it's like 40-ish feet high, 40 to 50, depending.
Guntrah: It's variable, and there's stalactites coming down everywhere, so, um, And I'm going to take out my crossbow and I'm going to shoot.
Tito: Shoot, shoot.
Guntrah: 13.
DM: Um, I don't think that's gonna hit the whole lot.
Tito: I'm trying to do one more thing. He's massive. You gotta hit.
DM: Uh, no, 13 does not hit.
Guntrah: Okay. 14.
DM: 14 does.
Guntrah: Okay, so I am doing a d10, which is gonna be an 8 piercing, plus I'm gonna do Arcane Jolt, which is gonna get 2d6 force damage.
Tito: Okay.
Guntrah: Uh, 12 force damage.
DM: Plus, what'd you say the first part was?
Tavian: 8?
Guntrah: 8 plus 12.
DM: And only the second part was force?
Guntrah: Both magical though.
Tito: Got it.
Guntrah: So 20 damage. Okay, and then it's Ollie's turn.
DM: And then it's Ollie's turn.
Tavian: Yes.
Guntrah: Um, you said they're about 60 feet away?
DM: Uh, yes, I believe so. I didn't do any math here. Uh, about 50 feet away. He gets +10 movement too, so he moved 40 feet. I mean, he's moved as far as Anywhere you want in that area. You probably like to keep them close to other people though, don't you?
Guntrah: Right, but I'm just going to keep them there. Um, yeah, he'll just stay there for now.
Tito: Okay.
DM: Um, it is you and your horse next.
Tavian: Yeah, so with my horse technically webbed, he can— can he do an attack?
Guntrah: He can.
DM: Yeah. Do you have to go before the horse, or does that not matter? I gave them your initiative.
Tavian: Right, we're at the same time, so it doesn't really matter.
DM: Okay, I, I didn't know because I know in his case Ollie has to go after him. I don't know if that matters to you.
Tito: Oh, really?
DM: I think so.
Guntrah: It acts as the same initiative. Usually I just do after. I think it says to share your Nymph's account, but it takes its turn immediately after yours.
Tito: Yeah, that's right.
Guntrah: That's for mine.
Tavian: Interesting. Um, I don't know if it says anything that explicit.
DM: Uh, no, I see a summon— a fine steed shares your initiative count and doesn't say has to go after, says it takes your turn at the same time as you rather than strictly going after you. So you can choose.
Tavian: All right, yeah, I would just have him do, uh, a hoof attack.
Tito: Okay.
Tavian: Uh, melee attack, it's a +6 to hit, 5 feet of reach, so 16, that hits. So 2d6 plus 4 bludgeoning, it's 9 plus 4, 13 damage of bludgeoning.
Tito: Okay, that's a pretty good kick. Yeah, it's a warhorse, it's a big-ass horse.
Tavian: Yeah, say good job, Roach.
Tito: Your turn.
Tavian: Yeah, and so I'm gonna blast a, uh, guy unless—
DM: I don't know, is the horse doing anything else?
Tavian: Uh, it can't move and I just used its action, so it can't really break out.
DM: Yeah, so, um, yeah, so I'm gonna do—
Tavian: I'm not even gonna move because I've got 120-foot range with Guiding Light.
Tito: Um, she's on your lunchbox.
Tavian: Okay, make a ranged spell attack against the target. So light streaks forth from my hand, uh, radiant damage. I need to hit it, so let's see.
Tito: Fuck, that does not hit. Um, so let's see, bonus actions, nothing to do.
Tavian: Um, all right, I suppose I will move forth a little bit. Um, 5, 10, 15, 20.
Tito: 35, 40, 45.
Tavian: Just kind of up here with Ollie.
Tito: Okay.
Tavian: And we just gotta remember, uh, he's kind of floating up here a little bit. I don't know if this is too obnoxious.
DM: Yeah, I still, I still want to order some risers. So we can get characters in the air better. Yeah, for some reason they're stupidly expensive. It's like $8 just for one little plastic riser. Like, that's more than a character. Like, I could buy 3 characters for $8.
Tito: That's crazy.
Guntrah: I'm not allowed to do a bonus action, am I?
Tito: Or is it past?
DM: I would say it's too late now.
Tito: It's too late to apologize.
DM: It's like garage beer. Okay, uh, that's it for, uh, uh, Tavian, right? Oh yeah, and the horse. Okay, so it's Vrenn's turn next. Yep, let's see, what is Vrenn gonna do? I don't think Hold Monster works on something that big.
Tavian: Oh, there's a Hold Monster spell?
DM: Yeah, he has Hold.
Tito: Um, I have that. It doesn't say that it does.
Tito: Choose a creature you can see within range, giving it the paralyzed condition.
DM: Um, yeah, sure, we'll try that. We'll try to do a Hold Monster. All right, so he breaks out arms and then give him a little rock. He breaks out his, uh, His staff, and he's gonna have to do a Wisdom saving throw. Does he have disadvantage when he's webbed on saving throws of any particular kind?
Tito: It's restrained, not paralyzed, but restrained would still warrant some sort of disadvantage.
DM: That's what I was wondering, but it's a Wisdom saving throw, so probably not.
Tito: Anyhow, what's his, uh, saving throw? 18. That's gonna be a tough one. He gets a bonus to Wisdom.
Guntrah: Okay, well, I should have advantage on my attacks against him.
DM: Uh, rolled a 3, so he's paralyzed or held, which I guess is paralyzed.
Tito: Um, so now all attacks—
DM: How did you get advantage?
Guntrah: Because it was restrained.
Silas: Oh.
DM: At the end of its turn, target repeats the save, ending the spell on itself on a success.
Tito: So he has to succeed on 2 saving throws now.
DM: Uh, yes, it is webs and paralyzed. Well, he can't technically even try to break out of the web yet because the paralyzation You have advantage on attack rolls.
Guntrah: Any hit is now critical.
DM: Is that what the paralyzed condition does? Any hit or just melee hits?
Guntrah: Any hit.
Tito: Are you positive about that?
Guntrah: Attack rolls against the creature have advantage. Any attack that hits the creature is a critical hit.
DM: It doesn't say any melee attack, it just says any attack.
Tavian: Any attack.
Guntrah: Okay. All right.
DM: Um, fool. Uh, let's see. So that's— we'll say Wrenn just kind of Wiggled out a little bit. He's, he's kind of getting ready to hide behind the stalagmite if he needs to.
Guntrah: Keep that in mind, guys. Advantage and crits.
Tito: What if it's a saving throw?
Guntrah: No.
DM: Yeah, in case it wasn't obvious, he dropped the invisibility. Everybody's no longer invisible.
Tavian: Yeah, yeah.
Guntrah: So attack rolls have advantage, saving throws don't. Uh, obviously any attack, which I guess could be a saving throw because it's attack It's critical hit.
DM: Uh, there's a— I think there's a difference between a spell attack and something that is a saving throw.
Guntrah: This is any attack that hits the creature is a critical hit. Attackers within 5 feet of the creature—
Tito: oh, 5 feet.
DM: Ah, so only melee then.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Oh, ranged attacks don't auto-crit.
Tito: Okay, okay.
DM: All right.
Silas: Um, so, but you still get advantage on—
Tito: yeah, yeah, you still get advantage on it.
DM: Okay.
Guntrah: Um, advantage because he's restrained too.
DM: That is it for Vrenn, and now it is The other one's turn.
Tito: Uh, let me measure this out real quick.
Guntrah: 25-foot zone.
Tito: What's their speed?
DM: Yeah, he's just gonna come over here.
Tito: Fuck yeah!
DM: And smash the dog— sorry, the horse.
Tito: What bean stuck you for, bro?
Guntrah: And he has advantage on that attack.
Tito: Yes.
Tito: Fuck it, bye-bye horsey.
Tito: Jesus Christ.
DM: I need to give him a name too.
Tavian: It's okay, he just vanishes, and when I call it back, it's the same exact spirit steed.
DM: Yeah, this one's going to be, uh, Hunch.
Tito: That's his name. Okay.
DM: Hunch has entered the battle. Uh, he's going to Greatclub. Uh, that's gonna destroy the horse.
Silas: Oh no.
DM: Um, and then I didn't even roll with advantage. And then also he is going to then turn, and, uh, you're out front. He's probably gonna go for you. Um, I need you to make a saving throw. Let me check out which kind it Charisma saving throw, please.
Tito: Perfect.
Tavian: Nat 20 plus 10.
DM: Yep, good enough. Uh, so you take half damage.
Tito: Hold on a second. Nat 20.
DM: Uh, so half of 27 is 13. You take 13 psychic damage. Okay, and that's the end of his turn.
Guntrah: Focus on the paralyzed one, guys. Focus on the paralyzed one. Get your hits in.
Silas: This one?
Guntrah: Yeah.
Tito: Is that light still there?
DM: No, no, the light went out, so They are in the dark to those without Darkvision, or further than 60 feet away if you have limited Darkvision. Uh, it is Silas's turn.
Guntrah: Okay, light 'em up!
Silas: Okay, I'm going to do Phantasmal Killer. Um, so it has to do a Psycho killer. Okay, I have to do a Wisdom saving throw.
Guntrah: Which one?
Tito: Uh, oh, 1.
Guntrah: You get no advantages on that one, by the way.
DM: Well, first of all, can you—
Tito: how close do you have darkvision for? 60 feet?
Tito: It's a range of 120 feet.
Silas: Yeah, I mean, at least— well, at least to him. I don't know, does it—
Tito: I mean, you can move up.
DM: Yeah, you can always move closer if you need to. Okay, so they would be very dim, right on the edge of your range of Spellcasting.
Guntrah: Okay, but him being paralyzed doesn't help your saving throw.
Silas: Okay, well then it doesn't matter, I guess. Then I could just— should I just target him then?
Guntrah: Sure, if that's what you want to do.
Tavian: But do you get advantage on spellcasting?
Tito: Spell attacks?
Guntrah: Not on saving throws.
DM: If it's not a saving throw, if it's like a lightning bolt where you roll to hit, then you do get it.
Tavian: Oh, I got it. Okay, like Guiding Bolt.
Guntrah: Yes. Yeah, yeah, it's got to be a roll.
DM: I fucked that up.
Silas: I could have Okay, so, so yeah, I do this Phantasmal Killer. Um, tap the nightmares of a creature you can see within range and create an illusory manifestation of its deepest fears. Uh, the target must make a Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target becomes frightened for the duration. At the end of each of the target's turns before the spell ends, the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 4d10 psychic damage.
DM: Okay, wisdom saving throw.
Tito: Uh, okay, 14.
Silas: Oh yeah, that'd be 17.
Tito: So take the damage. So is it 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15.
DM: And what kind of damage is that?
Tavian: Psychic.
Tito: Oh, psychic. Okay.
Guntrah: Yeah, and he's frightened.
Tito: And he's frightened and has disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls. I have the same spell, I'm reading it right now.
DM: Uh, for everything? Because he's, he's only frightened of him.
Tito: The target makes a wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the target takes 4d10 psychic damage and has disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls for the duration.
Guntrah: And he has to run away like a little But he's like restrained, so he can't. Well, no, no, he did the other one.
DM: He did the other one.
Tavian: Yeah.
Tito: Oh, okay, okay.
DM: All right, anything else from you? Uh, oh, you got your rings.
Tito: All right.
Tito: Oh, um, so his ability check the same thing as a saving throw?
Tito: No.
Guntrah: Put a frightened on this guy, and then we're gonna put a Paralyze.
Tito: Paralyze and restrain.
DM: I just paralyzed probably the bigger one right now, and then we can switch it to restrain if he breaks free.
Tito: Okay.
DM: Is it green?
Tito: Throw a color screen on there too. Goddamn prepentes and, uh, casting debuffs every day.
DM: Uh, all right, uh, Silas, anything else?
Silas: Uh, no, that's good.
DM: All right, Tito, you're up.
Tito: Okay, so what's it gonna cost me to pull this little itty-bitty bit of cloth that's covering my oil lantern? Like, what? How?
DM: It's a free action.
Tito: Okay, free action. Okay, so I do that. I have a 60-foot cone of bright light and then a 60-foot cone after that of dim light.
DM: Oh, that's, that's a lot.
Tito: It's a bullseye lantern.
DM: Yeah, and that was still more than I would have guessed it was.
Silas: Bullseye.
Tito: Um, So as a bonus action, I'm going to cast Unsettling Words on— actually, no, I'm gonna—
Guntrah: I forgot.
Tito: I'm gonna cast Chromatic Orb.
DM: Okay, yes, a little pinball action.
Tito: Doing a little pinball action. So I'm gonna cast it on this one. Yep, pairwise, so I have advantage on this one, correct?
Tito: Yep.
Tito: Okay, so +8, um, it's gonna hit. Yeah, 20-something.
Guntrah: Yep.
Tito: Okay, and that is—
DM: what's your damage type?
Tito: It's going to be I know, I'm gonna do acid damage.
Guntrah: All right.
Tito: Acid damage. Acid damage. And then 8d8.
Tito: So remember this, 8, 2, 1, 2. Okay, because if I roll any of those numbers again, I can bounce it. Oh, oh no, I did.
DM: You already got numbers.
Tito: Okay, so 10, 12, 13, 14, 20, 21, 23. So 23 acid damage to this one.
Tito: Yep.
Tito: And then I'm gonna bounce it to this one.
Tito: Okay. Let's see, 5, 6, 9, 13 plus 9, 22.
Tito: 28, 32 acid damage to the other one.
Tavian: And it can't bounce back?
DM: No, it can't repeat back to anybody that's been hit already.
Tito: Okay, yeah, well, all right.
DM: Uh, anything else, Tito?
Tito: And then as a bonus action, I will cast A Bardic Inspiration on Tavian.
Tavian: Nice.
DM: All right, next is going to be Clubby.
Tito: I'll use this.
DM: Clubby has 1d10 paralysis, and he gets to roll to break it.
Tavian: Okay, I'll slip that out so I remember.
Tito: He has to roll DC Bardic Inspiration. Wisdom becomes clubby.
Tavian: Yes.
DM: All right, what do you get? Uh, 17.
Tito: Which beats—
DM: all right, no, sorry. Um, plus it rolled 17, this is modifier. I know it's positive though, so it doesn't matter.
Tito: So he's unparalyzed?
DM: He's unparalyzed.
Guntrah: But still restrained?
DM: Uh, yes. And then I think that roll was at the end of his turn, so he can't roll for the restrain thing until next turn. At the end of each of his turns, repeats the save.
Tito: Yep, so it's no longer paralyzed, but it is still restrained, and he is mad.
DM: Uh, okay, then it goes to the top of the order.
Silas: But the one that I did, it says at the end of each of the target's turns before the spell ends, the target must succeed on a wisdom save.
Tito: Does that mean you're gonna do it now? For what?
Silas: What is the On that one that I cast, it kind of— it's like a 1-minute spell, so it keeps going on until they— until they have a successful save.
Guntrah: We cast it on the other guy.
Tito: Yeah, you cast on this guy.
DM: Oh, so the end of his next turn he has to do it again?
Tito: Yeah, I guess.
DM: Yeah, yeah.
Tavian: Or it takes more damage.
Tito: Yeah, psychic damage, like 1d6 or something. What is it?
DM: 4d10 for a Phantasmal Killer. He takes 4d10 every turn.
Tito: Not every time.
Silas: Okay, it does. At the end of each of the target's turns before the spell ends, the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 4d10 psychic damage. A successful save—
Guntrah: But it hasn't gone yet, so—
Tito: Oh, it's every time.
Tito: Oh yeah, that's good.
Guntrah: So we're top of the order.
Tito: It's concentration though, so you can't use any other concentration spells, right? But I can just keep doing that, like when it's my turn again, I'll Well, I, I would just use spells that are concentration because that'll keep going and that'll do damage if he doesn't.
Silas: Oh, I see.
Tito: And then you can still do—
Silas: Oh, that's on his turn, so I can—
Tito: yeah, my turn I can do something different.
Tito: Yeah, as long as it doesn't break your concentration.
Tito: Oh, okay.
Silas: So I gotta find something else in here that doesn't involve concentration.
Tito: Like Fireball or something like that.
Silas: Yeah, it's Fireball.
Tito: Do you have no concentration? No.
Silas: No. Okay, I'll do Fireball.
Guntrah: Yeah, it'll take the webs away though, remember that?
Tito: It'll take the webs away, but if you cast it in the middle—
Tito: Well, I'll do it on him.
Tito: That's what I was gonna do.
DM: I mean, it's good. The fireball is gonna obliterate the webs regardless of where it is, as long as it hits both creatures.
Tito: It's a 20-foot radius.
Silas: Oh, okay.
Tito: 40 feet of—
DM: Okay, sorry, where were we?
Tavian: Top of the order.
DM: Top of the order. Ollie and Gunn.
Guntrah: Okay, well, I'm going to take advantage shots.
Tito: My crossbow, first one. Dang.
Guntrah: 14?
DM: Yeah, that's— yeah, that's what you needed.
Tito: Okay, so, uh, do a d10 here.
Guntrah: It's gonna be, uh, 9 plus—
Tito: I'm gonna add in, um, I'm gonna add Where's that?
Guntrah: Here it is. An Arcane Jolt, just 2d6.
Tito: It's gonna be 5.
Guntrah: Okay, take my second attack advantage. Um, it's gonna hit, so another d10.
Tito: We're gonna use all of our fucking shit up and then come out of here and this dragon's just gonna Eat us a lot.
Guntrah: Uh, 9 damage again, and then I'm gonna use a bonus action to—
Tito: there we go. Actions, bonus actions, you're right there.
Guntrah: I'm gonna do Branding Smite.
Tito: Are you just flying right now?
Tavian: Yeah, near the entrance.
Tito: Because he can.
Guntrah: Uh, I'm doing another 2d6 radiant damage.
Tavian: You're gonna have to have someone steal his boots or something.
Guntrah: Uh, 11 points of radiant damage.
DM: Wait, how's it radiant?
Guntrah: Because it's Branding Smite.
Tito: Oh, you're smiting.
Guntrah: I'm using my bonus action Branding Smite. 11 radiant.
Tito: Okay, and if you get hit while you're up there, do you fall?
Guntrah: Um, no, I don't know.
DM: Uh, this one is— he's actually starting to bleed a little bit.
Guntrah: Hold on, let me make sure I mark the spell off.
DM: Yeah, I wanted to get some more size on the map just because it's fun to have big characters. So I use this specific eBay store for all my ordering, and I just searched for the word huge. I was like, well, just show me everything that matches the word huge. And those guys came up. I was like, those are pretty awesome.
Tito: I get—
DM: because I also sort by, um, cheapest. I was like, I'll just get something cheap and I'll make it fit whatever scenario I come up with. And I saw those guys, I was like, oh, there's 2 varieties and they're both cheap and they're badass looking. Yes, I will take those.
Tito: Hell yeah.
Guntrah: Okay, so I'm gonna do—
DM: And if you had any brilliant ideas of fighting the green dragon, I bought him too. So if you get stupid, I can get him out too. Yeah, I want to see how big he is.
Guntrah: Ollie, can Ollie move up to the guy that's restrained? I don't know, he has 40 feet.
DM: Yeah, he has 40.
Tito: Yeah, he can get there.
Guntrah: Okay, and he's gonna do a rend with advantage.
DM: Rend is such a strange word to use.
Guntrah: A natural 20.
Tavian: Oh yes.
Guntrah: Um, PB force damage was, uh, proficiency bonus. Okay, so 1d8 times 2, so 2d8 plus 4. Um, it's gonna be 11 plus 4, so 15 damage. Okay. That'll be my turn.
DM: Well done, Ollie. All right, well, yeah, and just me, just you.
Tito: Yeah.
Tavian: All right, I'm gonna try again with my—
Guntrah: remember, melee does crits.
DM: No, that was when he was paralyzed.
Guntrah: Yeah, but you do advantage on attack, so—
Tavian: Yeah, hold on, I just realized I don't think I captured my first guiding bolt. Okay, so I've used 1 spell slot there. Do another one, Guiding Bolt, and I have advantage on this for the restrained guy.
Tito: Yes. Okay, yeah, 12 plus—
Tavian: yeah, so 19 to hit.
DM: That hits.
Tito: That hits. So 46.
Tavian: Hang on to my Bardic Inspiration. So this will be radiant damage and he's dimly lit. I think we're good on light coverage.
DM: Yeah, I was gonna say, well, but I mean, on the other hand, if he does shake the webs, he's still gonna— somebody's still gonna get advantage on the next attack because of the light.
Tavian: Yeah, so that's, that's 15 radiant damage. Yeah, and because of that, yeah, so on top of him being restrained, even if he becomes unrestrained this turn, until the end of my next turn we still get advantage on attacks.
DM: Only the next one attack, so it's not every attack.
Guntrah: The next—
Tavian: oh, the next attack roll.
Tito: Yeah, yeah, you're right.
DM: All right, anything else from Tavian?
Guntrah: Hmm.
DM: A little BA, bonus action. Oh, it's like, yeah, he is a little badass though.
Tavian: Um, no, I don't think I really have anything that I want to use that on yet, so I'm good.
DM: Okay, um, Vrenn's turn. He doesn't have any concentration held because the Hold Monster got broken, uh, so Oh, taking advice from—
Tito: he saw your Chromatic Orb, he was like, yeah, good idea, I'm gonna do that.
DM: So he's gonna throw a Chromatic Orb.
Tito: Uh, let me see what level he's gonna do it.
DM: He's just gonna do a 2nd level for now.
Tito: Okay.
DM: And he has a +10. Uh, he'll do the same thing. He'll target the one where he gets advantage. And natural 20.
Tito: Hell yeah!
DM: Uh, too bad he only did it at a 2nd level.
Tito: Fucking pussy.
DM: That's still 8d8 though, which is the same you did. Yeah, you gotta do it as a 2nd level.
Tito: Yeah, that's true.
Guntrah: That's why they want to like watch this.
DM: Yep, I'm curious to see what kind of, uh, no matches on the first set.
Tito: That's 11 plus 4, 15.
DM: You got a 1, 3, 5, 6, 1, 3, 5, 6, and got another 5, so you can bounce it. That was 15 for the first set and then 16 for the second set.
Tito: So 31.
DM: 31, and he gets to bounce with the other one.
Tito: What kind of What damage is he choosing?
Tito: I'm curious.
DM: Oh, uh, he's gonna do thunder damage.
Tito: Why not?
DM: Maybe not. Uh, in case it isn't obvious, they have no resistances to damage types, so it doesn't matter.
Tito: It wasn't obvious, so—
DM: So I was trying not to give it away like last time. Uh, okay, so—
Guntrah: I think we're pwning these guys.
Tito: Yeah, well, they can't get to us. The second they get to us, it's just gonna be like Yeah.
DM: Uh, all right, and it's gonna bounce to Hunch, and Hunch is gonna take—
Tito: that's a big number and a small number.
DM: 20 in the first batch.
Guntrah: Oh shit.
DM: And then, oh my God, even bigger numbers.
Tito: Uh, 6 plus 8, 14.
DM: 18 plus 7, 25 on the second.
Guntrah: So 55?
DM: 45. 45.
Tito: 20 plus 25.
Silas: Nice.
Tito: Fuck yeah.
DM: Something about my chromatic orbs just do devastating amounts of damage. All right, and then that's it for Vrenn. Uh, he's starting to feel a little bit bolder. He's gonna come up and stand next to Tavian like, yeah, yeah, you see what I just did?
Tito: Yeah.
Tavian: He is getting multiple auras. Affecting him. Courage and movement.
DM: That, that's why he's sticking close to you. He doesn't realize why, but he just feels more courageous when he's around you.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: All right, and then it is Hunch's turn. Hunch is this one.
Guntrah: What's his status?
DM: He has to do something for a Phantasmal Killer. What does he have to do?
Silas: At the end of his turn, he has to—
DM: Remind me at the end of his turn. Yeah. Okay, uh, he is going to rush forward.
Tavian: I don't know how much forward he can go because he's frightened. He might be able to go like that, right?
DM: He's frightened. Uh, so where— he's frightened of you?
Tito: Yeah, of— yeah, frightened of him.
DM: Okay, so in that case, he's just gonna smash Ollie. Um, he missed.
Silas: He missed because Ollie's little and fast.
DM: The club is way bigger than Ollie.
Tito: Oh.
DM: So it doesn't take much.
Tito: The spider goes right back.
DM: All right, he has—
Tito: he doesn't even have to get that close.
DM: He can reach 15 feet away with his club.
Tavian: Wow.
Tito: So can he reach those guys?
DM: He actually could. So I wonder, you know, I'm gonna, I'm gonna roleplay this instead of using the mechanics. I don't know that he would bother looking down at a tiny little orb that's poking at him. He probably would just honestly walk right over top of him without even realizing it and then just try to crush these guys with his club. So I'll do an eeny meeny miney moe here, which one he goes after. Odds Tavian, evens Bren.
Tito: Evens.
DM: So he's gonna take a swing at Bren.
Tito: Fuck yeah, fuck Bren.
DM: I think you're jealous of his orbs.
Tito: His orbs ain't shit. I did 25-something damage to the other guy.
Guntrah: Level 2, dude.
Tito: I did 20 to one, or 25 to the other.
Tito: I did 50.
Guntrah: Level 2 spell did 45 to each.
DM: Plus 31 to the first one, so 76 overall.
Tito: Oh, scary.
DM: All right, so he's gonna swing in front. He doesn't have any disadvantage or anything, right?
Tito: No.
DM: Okay, uh, or does Frighten give him disadvantage?
Tito: I think it's only against—
DM: Is it, is it just— I asked you this question, you made it sound like it was all—
Tito: It's not, it's not me, it's—
Tito: he's the one that cast it, so But I don't— let me look. It was a Phantasmal Killer.
Silas: It doesn't really say anything more than just on here, just that it's frightened.
Tito: Yeah, I just can't move closer for Russ.
Guntrah: Disadvantage on checks and attacks. The creature has disadvantage on ability checks.
DM: So, um, okay, it's not really— I'm not gonna— I'm not gonna do disadvantage this time because the way he moved, you're not really This is like a wall, so—
Guntrah: Could he move closer?
Tavian: No, but he also kind of moved forward.
Tito: This is the entrance.
Tavian: He almost kind of—
Guntrah: He didn't move forward though.
DM: No, he moved laterally and then I just rotated him.
Tito: He was in front of this guy.
DM: He was literally right here and I just went like this, like literally stepped over.
Tito: He was definitely back here.
Tito: Yeah, I don't think he was.
Silas: Yeah, he was back there first and then you moved him and you rotated him over here and then you said, well, actually have him step over here, but They were both over here.
DM: Okay, I don't really care, it's fine. Yeah, you're literally destroying these things anyway. Uh, okay, I don't think it's right.
Silas: So then he has to take an objection. There's a saving throw.
DM: Uh, he's not done yet, he hasn't even swung. He's swinging his club now and he hits, and it's gonna do some damage here.
Silas: He got scared of doing damage and he didn't.
Tavian: Doing here.
DM: Uh, 15 bludgeoning to Vrenn.
Tavian: I will, I will do a reaction interception. So a creature you can see hits a target other than you within 5 feet of me. Yep. Um, so I'm gonna do a 1d10+ 4 just to reduce that amount of damage. So I got a 9+ 4 reduced by—
Guntrah: Actually, is he within 5 feet of, um, Bully? Yeah.
DM: Uh, yes, he is within 5 feet of Ollie.
Guntrah: Okay, as a reaction I can do Deflect Attack.
Tito: What's that?
Guntrah: Which, uh, defender imposes disadvantage on the attack rolls.
DM: Oh well, that ship sailed, so we'll do that. He gets another attack, so we'll do it on this next one.
Guntrah: The next one, okay, he gets disadvantage.
DM: So this one's gonna be disadvantaged because of Ollie.
Guntrah: Fuck yeah, I'll get out of here!
DM: I got a nat 1 with the 17, so it actually helped. Yeah, and then, uh, After he's swung his club twice, he's gonna Mean Mug Vrenn and force a saving throw.
Tavian: He gets +3 to his saving throws being next to me.
DM: Good to know.
Tito: Uh, let's see, what is his saving throw? Too many tabs open, I'm getting confused. Aura of Protection. Hold on, I got also something Uh, it is a charisma saving throw, and I don't know how charismatic Bren is. He's— oh, he's charismatic.
DM: Plus a 0, and then he gets your +3.
Tito: Yeah, he speaks in tongues, he's charismatic.
DM: Uh, 3+ 3 is 6.
Guntrah: Wait, well, how about I add a +5 to that?
Tavian: So 11.
Guntrah: Flash of Genius.
DM: Okay, that's still not good enough.
Silas: Damn.
DM: Um, that— what does that even do?
Tito: Hold on.
DM: The Fomorian uses Evil Eye, uh, on a failed save, which I gotta roll the damage. The creature is cursed with magical deformities. While deformed, the creature has its speed halved, has disadvantage on ability checks, saving throws, and attacks based on strength or dexterity, which he does not. Transformed creature can repeat the saving throw whenever it finishes a long rest. So until the next long rest, Wrenn is deformed. He moves slower because he has a magical deformity curse like this thing.
Guntrah: Oh man, what happens if the creature dies?
DM: Uh, well, let's find out.
Tito: This is a—
Guntrah: Like, if the creature that cast it dies?
DM: Um, it doesn't matter. It's a magical curse.
Tito: It sticks.
DM: Oh, um, for how long? Until the next long rest. And even then, it's not guaranteed to go away. He has to make the saving throw again at the end of Along your ass. Wow. So it might go beyond.
Guntrah: She probably has advantage on—
DM: um, why?
Guntrah: Your aura doesn't—
Tavian: your aura, it's not advantage, just +3.
Guntrah: Okay, because I know some paladins get advantage.
DM: But as long as he wakes up next to him, he'll get, he'll get the bonus still.
Tito: So yeah, anyway, I got a little damage.
DM: Very low damage. That's only 6 plus—
Tito: holy balls—
DM: plus 10 more, 16. That's very low damage. Okay, so Vrenn's okay.
Guntrah: All right, Mr. Cast Frighten, you need to move out. Who cast the Frighten on him?
Tavian: You did.
Guntrah: You gotta move out, make him move away.
Silas: Oh, he'll move away if I move towards him?
DM: Yeah, he's free to get in line of sight, get in the mix. I don't understand where he's got to make that— now that it's the end of his turn, he's got to make that throw.
Tavian: This is a wall?
Silas: Like, where am I?
DM: Yeah, this is supposed to be a path, right? You guys are technically a little offline. That's the path right there. Oh, but it curves right there, so he's out of your line.
Silas: Oh, I see. So I need to— who's this?
DM: I mean, that's Tito. Okay, so now he needs to roll for Phantasmal Killer, right? Or does leaving line of sight end it?
Tavian: No, no, he's still frightened.
Tito: He's still—
Silas: yeah.
DM: Okay, and what's the roll?
Tito: Uh, 17.
Tito: 17. Okay, and what's his—
DM: okay, uh, nope, 10. So he's still frightened.
Tito: Yeah, 4d10.
DM: Oh, and more damage.
Tito: Yeah, 6, 6, 3, 7, 12, 15, 4, 15, 6, 18. 18 more damage.
DM: All right, he's not looking good either. Flumph's almost dead, and then the other one's pretty wounded. Punch. Okay, and then that web was great.
Tito: Solid move.
DM: I'm repositioning creatures on my side.
Guntrah: It's like I know what I'm doing.
Tito: You've done this before?
DM: That was Hunty's turn. Now it's Silas.
Silas: Okay, so I'm— first of all, I'll move out of here a little bit.
Tito: I hear Hunty go, oh, oh, you guys!
Guntrah: Okay, so I'm like there and No, you have advantage on the guy webbed. I think you had advantage on the guy also frightened.
Silas: Oh, do I?
DM: Probably.
Guntrah: You're in line of sight.
DM: I closed that tab so I don't have the text of the spell open anymore.
Guntrah: I got disadvantage on checks and attacks. Okay, so you don't have advantage on the frightened guy, but the web guy you do.
Tito: Okay, frequently used.
Silas: Even if I'm doing like Fireball?
Guntrah: Well, Fireball sucks because it'll destroy the webs, but it hit them both for a lot of damage, which is good too.
Tito: It'll hit all the way too though.
Guntrah: Not if you cast it the right way.
Tito: There's no way you can cast it.
Guntrah: Yeah, you can cast it here.
Silas: I can, because I have this thing, it's like all my things are sculpt spells and it doesn't hurt enemies.
Tito: Oh, you have evocations? Yeah, that's like part of my Oh yeah, you can cast it and it won't hit at this level. It won't hurt any of us. Yeah, because you can pick one.
Silas: Yeah, you can— like it says on the thing, you can like say, oh, these people actually— like it says, like, plus whatever my level is, I basically can save all of us.
Tito: Like, you'll be able to save our whole party.
Silas: Yeah, so I can be like, and it doesn't touch anybody.
Guntrah: So it will remove his restraint though.
DM: It'll burn the webs.
Guntrah: Yeah, but you do extra damage, 2d4.
Tavian: Oh, because the web catches on fire.
Silas: Okay, so, all right, well, I'll do Fireball and Dex saving throw. Yeah, Dex saving throw.
DM: All right, um, blue one's Hunch, black one's Clubby. Uh, they both fail. I got a 3 and a 6.
Guntrah: So, so we'll just roll the damage, we'll apply it to both, and then 2d4 on the blue guy.
Silas: So there's 20 points of damage.
Guntrah: You gotta roll more.
Silas: And then what was the other one?
Tito: 2d4.
Guntrah: Only 20 points of damage?
Tito: Jesus Christ.
DM: Fireball would go 20. That's low for Fireball.
Tito: Yeah, I did it level, but it does hit both, so 3 effectively just done.
Guntrah: 2d4 for the blue guy.
DM: Uh, Clubby's dead anyway. He doesn't— it's enough to kill him. Nice!
Tito: Hell yeah!
Guntrah: So do I need to roll that one or not?
Tito: No, no, no.
Guntrah: Okay, and so 20 just like The big guy.
Tito: Yeah, and then that's it, right?
Guntrah: Yep.
Tito: Okay, good shit. All right, Tito.
Tito: Okay, I'm gonna use my bonus action to cast Unsettling Words, which is gonna be 1d10 minus for his ability checks.
Silas: Okay.
DM: 9. So -9 to his abilities checks.
Tito: Yes.
DM: Okay.
Silas: Wow.
Tito: And then I'm gonna do a Blight, which is a CON save throw of 16.
DM: So saving throws aren't ability checks. Are you sure that that's the—
Tito: or wait, let me check.
DM: Or does Unsettling Words affect his saving throws?
Tito: Yeah, saving throws. Yeah, the creature must subtract the number rolled from the next saving throw it makes before I don't think it's possible for him to succeed with that minus of 9, but what does he need to beat?
Tito: 16.
DM: And which type of saving throw is it?
Tito: Con.
Tito: Oh yeah, it's good con.
DM: Okay, uh, plus— so 19 minus 9, 10.
Tito: Not enough.
Tito: Nice.
Tito: It's gonna be 98.
Tavian: Damn.
Tito: That's good.
Guntrah: Fucking him up.
Tito: He doesn't—
DM: maybe could kill an ancient green dragon. Jesus, I might need to buy more.
Guntrah: It's all about debuffs, dude.
Tito: Okay, 8, 13, 15.
Tito: 21, 22, 26.
Tito: Let's see.
Tito: Yes, 34 damage. Necrotic damage.
DM: 34 necrotic damage, and that is enough. He's dead too.
Tito: Yes!
Tavian: Nice, take down the other one.
DM: All right, you have 2 dead Fomorians.
Tito: All right, I just say glory.
Silas: I go over and I go over and kind of check out their Their bodies are still burning. See what they have to do.
Guntrah: Why do we have such a problem with these guys?
Tito: Well, we can't fit in here, that's the problem.
DM: Yeah, they just— every time the dragon would come out here, they would just run inside.
Tito: Weak pussies.
DM: Yeah, they're not like— they're big and ugly and not particularly strong.
Tavian: Yeah, well, I'll cut an ear off of each of them and, uh, as our proof.
Guntrah: So wait, an ear is only one person.
Tavian: Cut all their ears off.
DM: No, we can just cut each left ear off. Yeah, the ears are not the same. Like, a right ear is different from a left ear. So if you have 2 right ears, that's clearly 2 people, not one person. They are deformed, so that's true.
Tito: Very fair.
Silas: There might be something else you could cut off.
DM: You could cut off 4 ears and get 3 lefts. You never know.
Guntrah: Yeah, it was David, we cut their dicks off.
Tito: Yeah, that's true.
DM: David would have already cut their dicks off.
Tito: You're right.
Tito: I want to inspect the cavern for treasures.
DM: Uh, okay. Um, roll— you're blind, you can't find nothing.
Tito: I have a big light in my hand.
Tito: I have a bullseye light that shines.
DM: Are you gonna take the hood all the way off or are you gonna be pointing it?
Tito: Yeah, hood all the way off.
DM: Okay, take the hood all the way off. You start, uh, looking for treasures. Make a perception check.
Tito: I don't find any treasures.
Tito: You find no treasures. What are you looking for?
Guntrah: You know, Valuable.
Silas: Wait, did you say there was anything on them?
Tavian: Did you say— Um, I'll assist, give you advantage.
Tito: That's not—
Tito: I gotta roll on that one.
Guntrah: Yeah, but easier.
Tavian: I know if I help, then you get to roll again.
Tito: Okay, yeah, it gives me advantage.
Tito: Yes, 17. Oh, is it perception?
Silas: Bijan Robinson had 111 yards in the first—
Guntrah: probably investigation.
Tito: If it's perception, it's 18. It's—
Tito: if it's investigation, it's a 20. Let me see. Look at my treasure.
Guntrah: Those guys are pussies.
Silas: I didn't even pull out the big guns. I got some big, much bigger guns than that.
Tito: I didn't use a spell, really.
Guntrah: Oh, he didn't take a hit.
Silas: I have a new one that's really good from level 7 I just got. It does at least 40 points of damage for sure. It's like whatever, whatever dice plus 40.
Guntrah: What is that?
DM: It's called 80 gold coins between the 2.
Tavian: How much?
Tito: 80.
DM: 80 gold coins.
Silas: Oh, oh, between them?
Tito: Between—
DM: yeah, they combined, they had about 80 gold coins.
Guntrah: I'm gonna fly around and look around the cavern. Is there anything interesting?
DM: Um, yeah, you see that they— the very back of the cavern, uh, appears to go even deeper below ground, and it's a little bit about this similar in narrowness as the, as the opening to the above ground. Um, and you do hear some noises, some I'm just— Grinding, some stomping, those types of noises. It does sound like it might be getting a little closer.
Silas: I'm looking for treasure.
Tito: Yeah.
Guntrah: Guys, there's noises down here, getting closer. Vrenn, do you know what's down there?
DM: Closer to what? I, I know the— these things are traditionally like tribal, uh, It's unusual to see just 2 of them, but it's also possible that they were separated from their tribe. So I, I don't know, there could be more there. They could be fugitives from their tribe like I was.
Silas: What?
Guntrah: Looks like this is a choke point though, right?
Tito: Sure, yeah.
Guntrah: You boys want to drive more out?
Tavian: Pretty sure Ted just wanted us to finish the 2 and then he'd let us pass.
Guntrah: Yeah, I know, but think about XP grinding.
Tavian: I'm not a smart man, but I'm pretty sure this is Milestone.
Guntrah: All right, well, do we have the evidence for Ted?
Silas: Yeah, he said he didn't even need evidence. He said—
Tavian: Yeah, he would know.
Silas: He would know anyway.
Tavian: I still have some ears.
Guntrah: Okay, well, you guys want to get out of here or what?
DM: Yeah, Vrenn says, um, you— I mean, you can have the ears, but you don't need them. Uh, and he kind of looks behind, he's like, look. And you see— well, I guess he's way up further, but you see that fox followed you in and he's been hiding in the shadows the whole time watching.
Tito: Oh sweet.
Guntrah: Mr. Fox!
Tavian: Throw the ears down and wipe my hands on my—
DM: He doesn't respond to you.
Guntrah: Fox!
DM: Like, it doesn't— he can't talk, he can't do anything.
Guntrah: See me?
DM: He looks at you.
Tito: See this?
Guntrah: Good.
DM: He's not, he's not communicating to you, he's just observing.
Guntrah: Good.
Tito: Cox his head, wags his tail.
Tito: Then I pick up Ollie on my back again, just get him all situated, latched in.
DM: Um, Ted told you that the fox was going to lead you back. Like he's waiting for you.
Guntrah: All right, guys, I think we got it. Let's, uh, let's get the fuck out of here, right? Are we sure we got it?
Tito: Did I hear something about more of them?
Guntrah: There's more down there, but this is not our quarry. Like, it's not our thing.
DM: Yeah, they sound distant enough that they could be coming. It's getting a little bit louder, but you don't know if it's, you know, they're passing across tunnel, if they're, you know, exactly— you don't know exactly what's going on, but it is possible that it's like Tavian said, we're Milestone-based, not XP-based.
Silas: Yeah, we're out of here.
Guntrah: There's nothing for us here.
Silas: Yeah, let's get out of here.
Guntrah: As much as I'd love to fuck up more of these things.
Tito: I mean, I would too.
Silas: So I, I start heading out of the cave or whatever.
Tito: Okay.
DM: Following the fox. Okay, so when— as soon as you start to make movements towards the cave's exit, uh, he hops up and just starts trotting in front. Expecting everybody to follow.
Guntrah: And I follow.
DM: All right, uh, you exit the cave. It takes you a little bit to climb back up. It's, you know, a little steep. And when you get out there, uh, the fox is sitting there waiting for you guys. When everybody gets out, he kind of just goes right back into the brush, following essentially the same path. Um, it takes probably another 2 hours or so. of marching through this thick forest, and, uh, you eventually come to what looks like maybe the same spot where, uh, Ted had kind of left you and went to the side. Uh, and then the fox leads you to that side path that Ted took you down, uh, and after maybe another 30 minutes or so, uh, you see there is a small pond. It's very swampy, um, a lot of Thorny brush. Uh, it's kind of— you're not exactly sure. It looks like maybe there's something slightly unnatural about this place, like maybe it used to be a witch's hut or something like that. I don't know, because there's some straight lines that look like there might be— might have been something man-made here at some point.
Tito: Okay.
DM: Out of, out of like old timber or something. But regardless, you see the, uh, the dragon is here and he's waiting for you. And, uh, it's the— at this point, it took you most of a day to go walk all the way there and walk all the way back. So you're looking at maybe early evening, maybe 3 or 4 PM. Yeah, late afternoon, maybe 4 PM. Uh, and Ted, uh, you see him kind of— he's looking at the fox. The fox hops over to him. Appears that they're communicating telepathically, and then Ted says, ah, very well, thank you.
Tito: I will do as you, as you wish.
Guntrah: Yeah, no problem, Ted. Uh, they're pretty fierce creatures.
Tito: Uh, and then, uh, he says, uh, where is it you wish to leave my forest?
Guntrah: Well, actually, um, can you help us? I'm sure you know around here. Is there a town or anything?
Tito: I owe nothing to you except to allow you to leave my forest alive.
Guntrah: Now we're your buddies.
Tito: We wish to go to the settlement to the southwest.
DM: Uh, where that smoke was? Is that what you're asking about?
Guntrah: That was the question.
Tavian: Well, I want to ask him if he knows where Bhaal's Academy is.
Tito: I know nothing of this academy you speak of.
Tito: Dang.
Tito: Good question, Tavian. Don't tell Tavian.
Guntrah: Yeah, uh, uh, yeah, we saw smoke to the southwest, so we're hoping there's a settlement there.
Tito: Uh, there are towns all around this wood. They invade my space and I eat them.
Guntrah: Well, is there one to the southwest?
Tito: There— yes, there is one in that direction.
Guntrah: I think that's where we're gonna go.
Tito: Very well. Do you need, uh, guidance, or can you walk?
Tito: We can take it from here.
Guntrah: Wait, hold on. Are you asking—
Tito: are you gonna let us go in with you?
Tavian: I will.
Tito: I will have one of my creatures go with you.
Guntrah: Actually, that'd be great.
Tito: Very well.
Guntrah: The guide would be Lovely.
DM: Uh, so once again, the fox hops back up to attention and, uh, kind of goes a little bit in that direction but then stops and kind of pauses.
Tito: Are you leaving immediately, or would you like one more rest?
Guntrah: Would you allow it?
Tito: I will allow one more rest.
Guntrah: I'm gonna look to the boys and be like, you guys want to rest one more time?
Tito: Or if it's late evening, I'd Prefer to go to the woods during—
Guntrah: Yeah, we, we'd like to do it during the day tomorrow in the morning.
Tito: Very well.
DM: Um, are you intending to rest here, or are you intending to go back to the clearing?
Tito: Um, I think the clearing.
Guntrah: Clearing. Yeah, yeah, yeah, we, we'll go to the clearing and, uh, rest there if that's okay with you.
Tito: Certainly. Uh, follow my friend to your resting Hey, really appreciate it, Ted.
DM: And then the fox starts hopping along the— it's, it's not really clear at this point. There, there are some reasonable paths, but you see the fox tends to go towards his little gamey path, so it's not pleasant, but you can follow him.
Guntrah: Boy, I really feel like Ted, uh, really should be a guy to be with us. He's a nice guy.
Tito: I know, I feel like that too.
DM: Like, uh, okay, so I feel like you guys hit a stopping point.
Silas: Yeah, I feel like he really liked you and he probably wants to follow you.
DM: Let me stop the recording.