DM: All right, the recording is live. Um, I do not believe you have any potions. I think you spent your, um, credits on other things, if I recall.
Guntrah: I just didn't know if by default we would.
Tito: That's table talk. We gotta move it along. They really, they really, uh, we're gonna get— we're hitting us hard last time for all of our—
DM: Gonna get a demerit.
Tito: What?
DM: Oh, they were saying stuff.
Tito: They were saying stuff like we was stopped, um, like what we were doing to discuss Like we were, we were rules nitpicking. Yeah, instead of keeping things in line, trying to ask what we could do in the situation, like, oh, is it okay if I do— do you think that this would be possible?
Tavian: Yeah, we need to just do things more.
DM: So if it's in your inventory, you've got them. If not, I would say you don't.
Guntrah: Okay, I just never added anything. I didn't know if that'd be a common thing to have.
DM: Well, and so if you recall, the Provisions Office gives out 2 per year per student, and—
Tito: but they—
DM: you use your credits on them. And if you choose not to use your credits on them and use those credits on something else, which I believe you guys all elected to do, then you don't have potions.
Guntrah: All right, then very first thing I'm gonna do after this battle is ask if anybody has any heals.
DM: Was that with our other character that we—
Silas: I felt like I remember got potions from Genie. I was like, I don't have them in here, but I was like, oh, because our other ones, that's when we had the thing. Like, I think I just took Yeah, 36 points down.
Guntrah: Uh, they shot lightning at me.
DM: Oh yeah, threw like a Zeus-style lightning bolt.
Guntrah: Yeah, we're down on the ground. We're near the guy's table.
DM: Yeah, after the fight ended, you landed next to Ollie and Tito, and then you all kind of gathered around, uh, Silas because Silas was going to cast the Plane Shift spell and you guys were all going to leave. But the scroll failed.
Guntrah: It failed, and so now we're kind of scared. Yeah, I know there's a lot more.
DM: That guy watched the scroll fail, so yeah, he just, he just handed over a really expensive— it took him months to create, uh, scroll and just watched you burn it up. Uh, but regardless, he doesn't seem annoyed by it. He, he seems compli— like contemplative. He seems like he's trying to figure out why it failed.
Guntrah: Um, I'm gonna look around like, uh, shit, anybody got any heals?
Silas: And I'll say, you don't have another one of those by chance, do you?
DM: Uh, not today I don't. Um, okay, no, uh, no, I don't have any heals. I'm sorry.
Tavian: Uh, come here, brother. And I rest my left hand on his shoulder and Lay on Hands, 21 points.
DM: Thank you, that helps. So the drow says, friend, my name's Vren. Listen, we've got about 30 seconds to get out of here. We can find some place nearby to, to lay low and hide, or, um, there's There is this, uh, house that's about an hour's walk. We can go there. Um, let me grab my stuff. And he runs over back to the workbench and he gets out a little satchel and starts piling it full of vellum and inks and, uh, components.
Guntrah: I think we gotta follow him. Yeah, yeah.
Tavian: I say, gentlemen, be brave. Let's follow this lead.
Tito: I'll look first.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Hold the line.
Tito: Go!
Guntrah: Um, I'm gonna look, um, And I'm sorry, but your, your name is, uh, Silas?
Tito: Silas.
Guntrah: And it is a choke point they're coming from, right?
DM: So yeah, so you're on a circular platform that has a singular bridge on the south side of it where the previous 2 had come from, and that does seem to be the sound of where the others are coming from.
Guntrah: The guy's name is Vren. Vren, is that where they're gonna be coming from?
DM: And I point back to where we Uh, it sounds like that's where they're gonna be coming from, but they're all around this, this plane, this land.
Tito: They're—
Tito: How are we gonna—
Tito: if it's an hour away, how are we gonna outpace them?
DM: I don't know yet. Um, what if we— as long as we're gone by the time they get here, they're stupid creatures. They won't— well, they might be able to track us. I don't know how well you guys are at covering your tracks, but we need to leave now. We can figure out the rest when we go.
Silas: Let's get out of here. Let's go.
Guntrah: Silas, can you pinpoint that location again and choke them off? So we get some more time?
Silas: Yeah, but is there, is there any other, uh, except—
DM: Your wall is still up because you're still concentrating on it, but there is still a one 10 by 10 piece missing.
Silas: Is there, is there another way out of here other than that one?
DM: There's not. Um, he, assuming you guys are following him, he kind of starts moving in the direction behind the statues that at the other side of this platform.
Silas: Okay, so, but we can get through the wall. There's that, that's missing, right? So we can get through out through the wall right now.
DM: All right, but he's taking us a different way. Yeah, if you want to go through the wall towards the creatures, you can. Oh, he doesn't recommend—
Silas: Wait, he said there is a different way? I thought you were saying—
DM: Yeah, he didn't say that, but his implication is—
Silas: Oh, okay.
DM: Yeah, we got to go a different way.
Silas: Okay, okay, lead the way.
Guntrah: So I ran up to his desk and I kind of helped move stuff into his inventory.
DM: Um, you notice that, uh, there is a lot of stuff, and it does seem to be very high-quality stuff, like he's been He has a lot of really nice things.
Tito: How does he look? Does he look scared?
DM: You see valuable gems, you see other components and powders you're unfamiliar with, smells, and, and I mean, you're just kind of overwhelmed by all of this stuff. Um, and he just shoves it all into this bag.
Guntrah: I'm gonna give him a help action to pick up his stuff as quickly as possible so he gets as much as possible.
Tito: Okay.
DM: All right.
Tito: Does he look frantic?
DM: He does. And I don't know if I described him very well the last time. He's dressed in tattered robes, maybe Maybe at one point they were as nice as what Silas is wearing, but right now they're, they're very worn and kind of, yeah, shabby.
Tavian: I'm trusting these guys to pack things up. I'm facing towards where we think they might be coming from, trying to perceive.
DM: Got it. Uh, roll a perception check.
Tavian: Uh, 5.
DM: Okay, uh, you hear it, but you can't tell the distance or time. I would say with your, with your 4 Intelligence, you think it's imminent. You think they're, they're gonna be here right now.
Tavian: I hear something.
DM: Um, yeah, so he finishes packing up with your help, uh, gets everything into a bag, and he motions, this way, this way! And he starts going around the statues behind where the workbench was.
Tito: Okay.
DM: And you see it's not that much narrower, but typically it's about 15 feet the gap around this whole platform, which a number of you could probably naturally make that jump. Some of us, it'd be a little bit harder. Um, but you see it narrows a little bit to like maybe that 10 to 12 foot range. Uh, and you can see that, uh, there's not exactly a path, but it's, it's a little bit more trodden in this spot where this isn't the first time somebody has jumped across this particular part of the chasm.
Guntrah: I just go, Ollie, on the back!
DM: Do you have like a propeller that comes out?
Guntrah: Oh, you got your—
DM: you get your boots though. I got my boots, so if I need to, I can just fly across. How does that work? Are they still active from your first? Because that was only a minute ago that you turned them on.
Guntrah: Uh, they're not an on-off thing, it's just a 4-hour flight.
DM: Oh, I thought when you activated them it started a timer. Oh, okay.
Guntrah: So I have a total of 4 hours.
DM: Yeah, but I think there's a certain distance, or every time you land it eats up a minute or something.
Guntrah: It eats up time, like a minute. Yeah, every time you use it, it's a minute. If it's not a minute, it's like default's a minute.
Tito: Oh, okay.
Tito: How far is the jump?
DM: It's only like 12 feet.
Tito: Okay.
DM: So as long as your strength is 12 or greater, you should be able to clear it.
Tito: I'm gonna— if I can, uh, let me see. I have Mirthful Leaps.
DM: Well, yeah, you can definitely make it with your Mirthful Leap.
Guntrah: Uh, and then you, I think, um, I have strength higher than that, but I have the boots.
DM: And you have enough strength, you can easily jump it.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Uh, Silas, I don't know if you have a method of easily getting across safely. Um, Vren is going to lead the way, and he's gonna Misty Step.
Tavian: Onto the other side.
DM: Okay, I don't know if you have that as well. I'm guessing you do.
Silas: I feel like I do.
DM: All wizards have to have Misty Step.
Guntrah: But if panicked, I'll go back and grab them.
DM: You can carry people too.
Guntrah: I mean, there's not— it's—
DM: I think the boots are designed for like self-use based on your encumbrance level.
Guntrah: Well, I'm kind of strong.
DM: What's your strength?
Guntrah: 13.
DM: Does it— does your character sheet tell you your encumbrance level, how much you can— what you can carry? If you click on it, I think it'll tell you your limits.
Guntrah: I'm unencumbered.
Tito: We're going DCC unlimited inventory, baby.
Guntrah: I don't have the limit posted, but I only— I'm unencumbered.
DM: Well, yeah, but that's with all of your current stuff. Taking on a whole nother person and their encumbrance level It's gonna like almost double.
Guntrah: I don't, I don't have a max weight.
DM: Well, you're an orc, you can actually carry more. Or sorry, it's a half orc.
Guntrah: I'm a full orc.
DM: He's a full orc. You can carry, I think, double than what a normal humanoid can because of that, because you're treated as a large when it turns— when it comes in terms to how much you can carry.
Guntrah: Yeah, you guys have a max or whatever?
DM: I don't know how it works on the phone. I can do it on the—
Tavian: I, I don't know. I don't see how it works here either. I've got— I'm unencumbered at 150.
DM: Click on your pounds. Uh, so your carrying capacity is 240, push-drag lift is 480. Oh, you're currently at 151. Yeah, you've got about 90 more pounds before you're considered encumbered.
Tito: Yeah, after we land across the thing, I'm gonna cast a 1st-level Cure Wounds on myself.
DM: Oh, I didn't know you were wounded.
Tito: Yeah, I remember I ran out there in the middle of everything.
DM: Oh, oh, that's right, he came up to— he only hit you once, but it was really hard, right?
Tito: 21 points, so it's gonna be 2d It's the first level, 2d8 plus 4.
Tavian: All right, I'll announce I have that letter. Yeah, sorry, that will cover it when we're—
DM: yeah, as soon as we have a moment, we'll, we'll review that letter.
Tavian: And then I say, I might need you to read this for me.
DM: There's some big words on here. Yeah, is there, is there an intelligence threshold for being able to read? I think there is.
Tito: Yeah, below 10, I thought you, you started to struggle with—
DM: And I think like 6 or below, and you're illiterate, isn't it?
Tito: I don't know.
DM: Again, neither here nor there for the moment.
Tito: We will figure it out right now, I bet.
DM: See what ChatGPT has to say.
Guntrah: Yeah, it's really weird.
DM: You can't see the encumbrance.
Tito: Make sure to ask twice. Clarify. Yeah.
DM: Uh, hold on, I need to open D&D Beyond anyway. I can pull that for you.
Tavian: Yes, Tavian can read. There's no minimum intelligence score for literacy in 5e.
Tito: That's not true.
DM: Well, in the podcast world it's not true, but maybe in actual rules as written it is true. All right, let me check your encumbrance. How is it you're only carrying 83 pounds? That's bullshit.
Tavian: Well, the backpack's probably not checked. I just had to check mine and that was an extra 59 pounds in a 30-pound carrying capacity backpack, so my backpack's overflowing a little bit.
Tito: Uh, oh yeah, I gotta check my backpack too. Oh yeah, my backpack's overflowing too, but mine's like the default getup, so I don't know if I'm supposed to—
DM: I don't even see a backpack on his character sheet and then under inventory.
Guntrah: Uh, I can push, drag, or lift 780. My carrying capacity is 390.
DM: Right, but, um, yeah, he doesn't have a backpack. You don't even have a backpack? You don't have a backpack. That's confusing.
Tito: Where are you keeping all your gear at?
DM: Yes, I'm just wearing gear.
Guntrah: I don't have anything else besides wearing stuff.
DM: Well, you see, you have your all-purpose tool, your heavy crossbow, you have a light crossbow, and you have a greataxe, and you have a shield. You're Carrying all 5 of those?
Guntrah: Well, I don't need the light.
Tavian: That can be removed.
DM: Remove the light one?
Guntrah: Yeah, I'll get rid of that.
DM: Okay.
Guntrah: I'm not using the shield, so I'll get rid of that too.
DM: Well, it says it's giving you +2 AC right now.
Guntrah: Oh yeah, but I guess that's true.
DM: It says you have it and it's equipped. So— oh yeah, yeah, hold on, rewind. We need to fix your character because he's super fucking broken. You have 7 infusions. Your max is 4.
Tito: 4?
DM: Yeah, so we need to choose 3 infusions to remove and the shield because you don't have an extra hand for your shield.
Guntrah: Okay, remove the shield.
Tito: Whoa, Miles is cheating the system, right?
DM: Yeah, I was looking at everybody's character sheets just to find, you know, what you're good at, what you're bad at, so I can optimize combat and things. And I was like, wait a minute, how is this possible? When I started going through his, I was like, my infusions are broken. There's a tab under inventory, you have an infusions tab, it's the 4th one, and you can see all the things that you have, which you know that many infusions, but you can't have all of them active at the same time. I think 4 is your maximum of how many infusions you can have active at a time. So right now you've got your scale mail, uh, +2 armor class wearing your infused Enhanced Defense. You have your Replicate Magic Item Periapt of Wound Closure active, so that's number 2. Uh, you have your Replicate Magic Item Winged Boots active, that's number 3. You're wearing a Helm of Awareness, that's number 4.
Tito: 5.
DM: You have an enhanced greatsword— that's number— sorry, greataxe. That's number 5. You have Repeating Shot on your heavy crossbow. That's number 6. And you have your Arcane Focus enhancement, which gives you a +2 bonus to spell attack rolls. That's number 7.
Guntrah: I'll remove the Arcane—
DM: Jesus, bro, you're midnight.
Tavian: He's basically—
DM: he's basically playing a level 10 character at level 20 with this stuff.
Guntrah: Okay, so I got 1, 2, 3, 4, and then 5.
Tito: Why don't you just keep the shield so you can get that +2 back?
DM: He gets +2 for his scale mail as well.
Tito: And then do you, do you have an offhand that you can keep your shield in?
DM: Um, typically with his heavy crossbow, he wouldn't.
Tito: Oh.
Guntrah: Get rid of this one. Yeah, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. I get rid of one more. I like that one. I like that one.
Tito: All right, there we go.
Guntrah: Down to 4.
Tito: Let me do a refresh.
DM: Sorry, which ones did you keep then? Inventory.
Guntrah: Now I have—
DM: So you kept the Repeating Shot Crossbow.
Tito: Mm-hmm.
DM: You kept the Enhanced Greataxe. You kept the Winged Boots and the Scale Mail. Okay, so you got rid of the Helm of Awareness, the shield, and the Periapt of Wound Closure. Oh, and your Enhanced Arcane Focus.
Tito: Okay.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Um, I think you need to turn your Heavy Crossbow Tunement back on. It looks like that's turned off, um, in order to get the benefit. It's turned on. Oh, maybe I didn't refresh it in time.
Guntrah: I think the app doesn't refresh.
Tito: Yeah, there we go.
Guntrah: It's all correct.
Tito: Got it. Okay.
DM: All right, I think that's good.
Guntrah: Um.
DM: All right, and then everybody else is squared away? Uh, you guys didn't like do long rests or anything, so your spell slots are still marked as used and things like that?
Tito: Okay.
DM: All right, fix that. Uh, okay, so everybody— did you decide, Silas, how you're getting across the gap?
Silas: Oh yeah, uh, wait, I do have the Do I cast that then? I mean, Misty Step, do I just—
DM: Uh, yeah, if you're gonna use Misty Step, then just mark that as—
Silas: All right. Also, like, my Dexterity is pretty high. Like, does that matter?
DM: Um, it's Athletics, which is Strength-based for jumping. I mean, you can try. You can roll. You can roll to try.
Tito: All right.
DM: Without using a spell.
Silas: I'm gonna try. Okay.
DM: Um, what is your Athletics?
Silas: Uh, +80.
Tito: +80.
Silas: I think it's -2. Now let's see here. Athletics. It is -2.
DM: So, and then, uh, let me try to remember the formula.
Guntrah: I'm gonna ready an action to—
Tito: Uh, okay, I do have something.
DM: Yeah, if you were a dwarf, I'd throw you.
Guntrah: I think I have—
Tito: toss me.
Silas: I have Feather Fall, so I could actually Yeah, if you fall.
DM: Yeah, if I fall, I can catch it. You can feather fall.
Silas: So at least I won't—
DM: Uh, okay, so, uh, let's see here. Distance is— okay, with a 10-foot running start, which you can do a 10-foot running start, okay, your distance equals your strength score in feet. So what's your actual strength score? Not your— not your athletics modifier, sorry.
Silas: Uh, my strength score is 7.
DM: So you're You're gonna be 5 feet short if you try to jump. Um, oh, I can, I can set a DC and you can make an effort if you want.
Tito: What are we jumping over?
DM: But you're not very confident you can make it.
Tito: What are we jumping over?
DM: The, the moat, or, you know, around this platform.
Tito: Shape Water.
Silas: As I kind of run across water—
Tito: You can control the water, can't you?
Silas: Oh, you can make it ice.
DM: So as you get close, you see it's not water, it is Lava, and it is very hot. So I forgot, I forgot one thing.
Tito: He can only jump 7 feet.
DM: Um, before, uh, before you all jumped across, I'll just do the Misty stuff. Um, Wren filled up his water skin. He encouraged you all to do the same. It's like, hey, take as much water as you can, but quickly. Uh, there's, there's a cistern thing under his workbench where he's Stays hydrated. So if you have a waterskin, which actually I don't think you do because you don't have a backpack, uh, I don't know where you're gonna get your water from.
Guntrah: Okay, so yeah, we didn't add adventuring.
DM: You probably should have added adventuring gear.
Tito: Oh, I do have a waterskin.
DM: Yeah, you should. It should come with either an adventuring pack or a dungeoneering kit, or all of those things should each have a water costume as well.
Tito: I have 3 costumes.
DM: That's because you're a bard. Um, okay, so yeah, retcon, everybody filled up whatever containers you have of water.
Silas: Then I'll do the Misty Step. I'll do that.
DM: Okay, so you Misty Step across, everybody's on the other side.
Guntrah: My automaton actually can fill the water.
DM: Uh, okay, so you get across. Um, Um, and then you still hear the people, or the, the hooves kind of approaching that platform behind you. Um, it sounds like you, you've made it out just barely, uh, but you start running. He's kind of leading you towards a small outcropping of where the, the stones and boulders are kind of a little bit higher. There's some small ridges, the only place it looks like you're going to find any cover. Um, the ground is desolate, and there's cracks all everywhere, and you can see steam and other substances rising from the cracks in the ground. It's very uneven and rough terrain, um, not to the point where it slows you down necessarily, but just— it just looks unearthly, like, for lack of a better word. Um, and yeah, so he starts leading you towards, uh, towards some rocks.
Tito: My hopes are really—
Guntrah: I'm gonna look up and go What is this place?
DM: Uh, I'll explain in a minute. Come on, hurry up. He's not very fast, so you can easily pass him if you want. Uh, you can kind of see where he's going.
Tito: Can I— I just want to be actively, like, keeping an eye behind us.
Tito: Okay.
Tito: Constantly looking You can— I don't know how much time.
DM: Visibility here is a little bit improved. Um, so the, the lava that was around this platform was causing about a lot of the visibility issues out here. There's still a haze that's affecting everything you can see, but it is better. So if everybody wants to just look around, if you want to keep an eye out behind you, go ahead. And everybody just make more perception checks just so we can see what we can see.
Tito: 9.
Silas: 14.
Guntrah: 14.
Silas: Oh, copycat.
Tito: Mine's 14 as well.
Tito: Whoa, what's my perception?
DM: Uh, 15.
Tito: 15. Okay.
DM: Um, yeah, so you can see a little bit further. Um, you do see not just around you, but you see, um, on the ground you see some tracks. Uh, similar to what would be made by those creatures. It seems like maybe that's one of the dominant species that inhabits this place. Um, you can kind of tell it's one of the abyssal layers. There's like 1,000 of them or some ungodly number of layers to the Abyss, and it's one of them. Um, and, uh, so you can see some shapes moving in the distance, maybe half a mile away.
Tito: You think we would know that that's where we're at?
DM: Yeah, I think you've been able to figure that much out so far. And it is specifically because of those creatures that you encountered. They, they don't look like they're something from the Hells. You don't see any flying demons overhead or anything like that, devils.
Tito: These—
DM: it seems like more of a fiendish place, which is what the Abyss is kind of like. But this is one of them, and it's again just— you don't see signs of civilization. You see wilderness and desolation everywhere you look.
Tito: And you see—
DM: you can also, you can hear a lot of the sounds of, you know, combat and screams and things in the distance. Smells terrible, very sulfurous.
Tito: Hellscape.
DM: Yeah, it's kind of a hellscape, despite not actually being in Hell. Okay, and— so yeah, so you eventually— it only takes about a minute or so to reach where it is that he's taking you guys. And you get, uh, you get to these rocks and he kind of hunkers down really low to the ground and he kind of motions for everybody to get down, uh, so he can finally take a breath and answer your questions.
Tito: I hunker down.
DM: I, I'm sorry for having to leave in a rush. I just knew that if more of them came, they're, they're stupid creatures, they would have assumed if you left without me, they would have assumed I did it, uh, and they would have killed me. So I had to, to leave with you. Um, And they— and if you stayed, obviously they would have killed you. So the way I see it, like I said, we have 2 decisions. And I say we because I'm unfortunately stuck with you right now.
Silas: Uh, or fortunately, depends on—
DM: There's nothing fortunate about what's happening right now.
Tavian: True.
Guntrah: Okay.
DM: So that, that scroll I gave you was the only one that I had, unfortunately. Um, my master, and he's got all of these things for me to do. It's It's a huge list, but I'm making another one, but it's not gonna be ready till tomorrow. I've done all the preparations, but I can't finalize the scroll until tomorrow when I have that ability.
Tito: So, um—
Tito: Wait, who's your master?
DM: Uh, his name is— sorry—
Tito: Morvek.
DM: M-O-R-V-E-K. Morvek. Um, he's, uh, he's a lich.
Tito: A lich?
DM: Yes, he's a lich. He, he's the one who's having me do all this stuff. And, uh, anyway, he owns—
Tito: he owns me.
Tavian: He owns this.
DM: Uh, don't, don't go looking for him. He's, uh, he's too powerful, and, uh, he, he's, he's got me trapped. So anyway, we have 2 choices. Like I said, you can either wait here and we can try to just hope we don't get found until tomorrow.
Tito: At dawn.
DM: Or there is a house that he is inhabiting— not at the moment, fortunately, but, uh, he— his stuff is there. He's basically a tenant in this minor demon's house.
Guntrah: And I—
DM: we can go there. There's, there's things there we might be able to leave today if, if there's either a scroll or— Uh, I, I know that he has this basement that's full of arcane things, and I, I think he comes and goes to that basement. So it's possible we could just— sorry, not we, I can't go anywhere. He has my, uh, what is it called?
Tito: Heart?
DM: It's basically the Abyssal equivalent to a soul coin, but he has another name for it.
Tito: Hold on.
Tavian: I say house sounds better than no house.
Silas: I agree, I agree.
Guntrah: Well, does anybody have the ability to make a house?
Tito: I do.
Silas: I can make a little tiny hut.
Tavian: We can go to this house.
Tito: We're not supposed to.
Guntrah: We just have to make it to dawn.
DM: You just have to get— you have to survive until dawn.
Tavian: I know, but it's an option, right? Yeah, uh, to either go to a house or just hide in the wilderness.
Guntrah: But a house that, uh, possibly might have a lich there.
Tito: He said he's not there, and there's a bunch of magical items there. Yeah, sounds like a lootable opportunity. I don't mind robbing this lich blind.
DM: Um, yeah, he— so he's not there. The, the demon whose, whose house it— he actually owns it— he's gone because he's subletting it to this lich Morvek. But, uh, he's off on doing other things right now. He's going to be back tomorrow to collect The scroll that I'm— if we survive long enough, I'll let you have it, and then I'll have to just deal with him because I'm making it for him and he's expecting it.
Tavian: So—
Guntrah: Who do you deal with at school?
DM: What school?
Tavian: What are you talking about?
Guntrah: Well, the reason we got here is because the package that had the portal went to our school.
DM: Where are you from?
Guntrah: Bhaal Academy?
DM: I don't know what that is. I, I just—
Tavian: Do we have time for this?
DM: You guys are mostly hidden right now, like you're hiding behind some rocks, that there's no imminent threat. Um, obviously if you stay here for a longer period of time, then there will be patrols and other things that you have to start rolling to avoid being seen, but right now you're okay. Um, I, I, I don't know what that is. I just do what I'm instructed to do. I enchant the things that they give me. I use the scrolls, I make the scrolls, I just— I'm not responsible for whatever happens after that. I'm sorry. I don't know where it is you come from or what's happening to you.
Guntrah: Faerûn is where we're from.
DM: Oh, well, I mean, Faerûn makes sense.
Silas: That would—
DM: I mean, that's in the Material Plane. That explains this. And he reaches into his bag and pulls out a tuning fork, and it is steel, which is— you would know this. I don't know that the rest of you would. You might know this because you work with tools like this, but A tuning fork, specifically a steel one, is one of the necessary things to construct a Plane Shift portal or spell for the Material Plane. Every plane has its own material that's necessary for a tuning fork to go to. So he's like, you know, that's why— obviously why Morvek gave me this. He wanted it to go to the Material Plane. I didn't know where in the plane, he just— he told me Neverwinter, so I made a scroll for for that. And then he told me— he gave me this visual of this other place, and I made this scroll for that. I, I don't know any, any more than that.
Guntrah: Do you remember who the box was meant for?
Tito: Um, the inventory office guy.
Tito: I don't—
DM: depends which one it was. I don't know. I've sent out like 6 of them.
Guntrah: We had them. We read it. It should have a to address, right?
DM: Yeah. So you can tell him what it said, which is it was addressed to a Something Thatch. Again, I don't remember his first name. Uh, yeah, Thatch the groundskeeper is who it was addressed to. Uh, so yeah, you tell him it was addressed to a guy named Thatch, you know, specifically said he's like, oh, I, I, yeah, I remember that one. What did you want to know about it?
Tito: What's your relationship to Thatch?
DM: I, I just wrote down the words that I was given to write. I don't know who it is. Yeah, Vren, as far as you can tell, he is just a very, very, very good messenger person. He doesn't know what— why he's doing what he's doing. He's just following directions, delivering these things.
Guntrah: So the house would be empty until, uh, tomorrow?
DM: Uh, not empty, but I mean, it's— I've been there a few times. Um, there's these skeleton servants that just wander around and they have tasks that they're enchanted to do when they do them, but they're not— they're not, um, it's not danger. No, they're not— they're not— what's the word? They don't attack.
Tito: There's no traps or alarm systems that would alert, uh—
DM: Well, yeah, no, there are.
Tavian: There's—
DM: well, I mean, uh, Morvek's door, which, uh, used to be the, the Demon Lord's door, I suppose, um, it's heavily guarded with some sort of arcane enchantments, and I'm sure there's an actual lock as well. But don't, don't dare try to go in there.
Tito: Would he be upset about our presence at the house?
DM: Well, if we're successful, he won't know. That's my hope.
Guntrah: Insight on that statement, please. Okay.
Tito: Just turned a minor NPC.
DM: Uh, he sounds legit.
Guntrah: Okay.
DM: Trustworthy. So it's up to you guys. If you want to take your chances out here, we can do that. Or if you want to go back to the house, uh, we might be able to leave immediately. It's like I said, about an hour to get there, and I'm not gonna lie, it's probably risky to cross some of these open, you know, plains and stretches on the way there because it's not— we can't have this sort of COVID everywhere.
Tito: Man, how'd you fuck up that scroll anyway, Silas?
DM: About that, it wasn't his fault actually, I realize. This— the quill that I used to, to do that scroll, I did with, with my magic quill. And I didn't know at the time, I just learned that that means only I can cast it. So that's why it failed when he tried to do it. So tomorrow at dawn, when I, when I get you a new one, I will make sure to use a standard enchanted quill, not my own personal magic quill.
Tavian: That's right.
DM: And then anybody can use it. So apologies, I, I didn't know that that was going to happen.
Silas: Oh, okay. I thought that was me. I mean, we're kind of new out of school, so that's— it could have been me.
DM: But I think we take our chances in the hut.
Silas: So, yeah, so I said I can, I can make a hut, but if— do you think that they will see us if we're, uh—
DM: I mean, the hut's not doing gonna do any good. What, what is a—
Silas: they're gonna see a hut, but it's, it's tiny.
DM: And no offense, I don't want to share a tiny hut with you guys in the middle of this place.
Guntrah: It's Leomund's, right?
Silas: Yeah, that's the one.
DM: I've heard that name before.
Tito: Who is that?
Guntrah: It's a powerful wizard who created a spell that— it's not that tiny.
DM: Oh, so not a literal hut? No, it's just—
Silas: it's a spell. It creates a Kind of a dome, kind of a place that we can stay that nothing can come inside of it.
Guntrah: Oh, this isn't the other spell.
Tavian: Yeah, this is make it invisible, or it's not like another realm.
Guntrah: What's, what's the spell?
DM: There's a Mordenkainen's Mansion, which is just a door, and you can open the door, go into the—
Tito: I had Tasha's hut. Tasha's—
DM: Tasha doesn't have a hut. I think we had the same one, which is like— it's like Tasha's is the scope. You can see out, but they can't see it.
Guntrah: It's the same thing from, uh, last campaign.
DM: Yeah, somebody in Strahdcast did it.
Guntrah: There's one that's like literally you walk in and there's like servants.
Tito: Oh.
Guntrah: And like it's huge.
DM: Well, the one with servants that's big is the Mordenkainen's Mansion, which is a higher level spell.
Silas: This will, this will fit like 9 people in it.
Guntrah: Okay, this is the dome.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: So wait, they say, all right, scroll boy, make this Hut. Will they be able to see it?
Silas: Uh, well, yes. I mean, it would be dark, but it's gonna be opaque from the outside. But we can choose a color to make it, whatever color we want. So we could make it black. Maybe it wasn't—
DM: You could probably make it like the same color as these rocks. It might help. Um, I don't know. It's, it's, it's risky. It's your choice.
Guntrah: How long does it take you to make a scroll?
DM: Roughly 8 hours for me to, to rest, and I can make another one.
Tito: Instantly?
DM: Um, well, I mean, it's like a 10-minute process or something, I think.
Silas: Is there cover on the way to the thing, or is there a lot of open space?
DM: Um, it's hit or miss. I, I'm not that— I don't memorize the—
Guntrah: So if you were going to sleep right now and we cast the hut a little bit later, then you can easily make this, uh, this thing while the hut's still up.
DM: We could try that, yeah.
Silas: Okay, I mean, I guess they can't because it says they can't enter it.
Guntrah: No, so if we—
Tavian: they cannot wait for outside it.
Silas: So yeah, but if he has a scroll, then if we just read it and we just disappear—
Tito: So what—
DM: I don't want to metagame too much, but if they did detect that this spherical or semi-hemispherical thing just showed up, they might try to investigate if they see it. And you might, depending on the timing, you might have a problem or you might not. We will roll for it to see. It's not a— I'm just saying it's not a given.
Silas: The duration is 8 hours at last. He said it takes 8 hours.
Guntrah: He needs sleep for 8 hours and 10 minutes afterwards, right? So if he goes to bed now, chill for a minute.
DM: Let me verify the length of time it takes to, uh—
Guntrah: so it's like, hey dude, You go to bed now, we'll chill for 30, then we'll cast it. Yeah, but then again, he may not let us have it if there is a bunch of them around him, you know what I mean?
Tito: Yeah, we just dip out and then leave them.
Tavian: But is he in danger, or is it just us in danger?
Tito: It—
DM: what the impression he's given you is that he thinks he can talk his way out of dealing with Morvec. These creatures are stupid, and if they think that he had something to do with killing the 2 of them on that platform They will kill him.
Tito: I'm leaning towards making our way to that house. It's only an hour away. It sounds safer.
DM: Yeah, I think we can—
Silas: I think we can do it.
Tavian: Sounds more fun for sure.
Tito: Yeah, come on, Gun.
Silas: Okay, okay, whatever you say.
DM: That sounds exactly like me. Okay, whatever you say.
Silas: That's more how he talks. What was the impersonation I was doing earlier?
DM: Yeah, it doesn't strictly say, but I'm gonna go with 10 minutes. He'll, um, he'll need 10 minutes to finalize the scroll. It's an action to cast the spell into the scroll, but he's got to do some other, uh, finishing touches.
Silas: So you're saying it takes— what is it, 8 hours or 10 minutes? Or just—
DM: Well, yeah, 8 hours of a long rest for him, which, you know, depending on Oh, instead of a long rest? Yes, yeah, he needs a long rest to do it, which—
Silas: Oh, and then it takes 10 minutes after that, I see.
DM: Right, right.
Silas: Okay, so if we did— we're probably not gonna do the hut. If we did the hut, then we would Probably be like, okay, I don't know, try to fall asleep.
Tito: I won't cast it yet.
Silas: And then once you're asleep, and I think if I see like we could be— then I'll cast it.
DM: And we can't just—
Tito: I mean, if it's real life, this guy's not gonna just fall asleep after some chaotic fucking battle surrounded by strangers.
DM: Okay, with basically like afternoon. Yeah, yeah, fall asleep right now.
Tito: Don't wake up.
Guntrah: I know.
Silas: Anybody have a frying pan in there?
Guntrah: He'd be out then.
Silas: He'd be sleeping whether he wants to or not. Are you looking for a frying pan?
DM: Some of them have like, uh, small cooking utensils.
Tito: I do not. A bullseye lantern.
DM: Cool, those are nice. Those are expensive actually. More hooded lanterns and bullseye lanterns are more expensive than a regular lantern. Because it's basically like a lantern that has like a little flashlight thing on it. Yeah, more of a spotlight style. But usually the hoods are removable, so if you want it to be a regular lantern, you can.
Tito: Yeah, I think—
Tavian: I'm pretty sure crafting a spell takes days to weeks.
Guntrah: It does.
DM: So he's— all of the supplies and things that he's got in his backpack He's been doing this for a while, and that's the impression that you get.
Tavian: Oh, I see.
DM: And so some of the things that he's nearly finished with—
Tavian: Well, because like, 5th-level spells, 4 work weeks, and 5,000 gold of supplies.
Guntrah: Yep.
Tito: Gun, we're gonna go to the house.
Tito: Yeah. Okay.
DM: He said he can't sleep in the middle of the day for 8 hours. He did not say that.
Guntrah: Um, but I've got a lot of yaks.
Tito: You can eat a lot of yaks. Obviously, if she was full.
DM: Uh, so to the house then?
Tito: Lead the way.
Silas: Okay. All right.
DM: Um, stay low, stay quiet, keep your eyes open. If you see anything, say something quietly. We gotta— if we have to run, we run. If we have to fight, we fight. If we hide, we hide.
Tavian: And I hold my breath and try to move as quietly as I can, but I just hear clunk, clunk, clunk.
DM: Do you have to make that noise?
Tavian: That's my heavy armor.
Tito: Oh, shoot.
DM: Okay, uh, does anybody have a way of making him quieter?
Silas: Yes, I have Fireball. That'll make him really quiet.
Tavian: I do a fancy hand gesture and bring my flying steed.
DM: Do the, uh, the finger thing?
Tito: Yes.
DM: Uh, do you actually cast that?
Tavian: I do.
Tito: Okay.
Tavian: Um, and not for any purpose to like get far ahead, but I think that's probably quieter than my—
DM: Oh, I, I don't know. Um, I actually didn't research the quietness of using your steed It's gonna—
Guntrah: your armor is still clinking.
DM: Yeah, I don't know. Yeah, I don't know that it's gonna change. I would say it's probably gonna be the same.
Guntrah: You can move faster.
Tavian: Yeah, but I don't want to get ahead of the group. But I message him separately, and I've got a warhorse spirit that I can call. Oh, but it is a spirit, so it's not actually clanking around in armor.
Guntrah: I think it's more like the jostling of you, right?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Okay, so you're gonna cast it anyway or no?
Tavian: No, I guess not.
Tito: Okay.
Guntrah: I'm gonna ask him, is it— would it be beneficial if I was up there being a lookout?
Tito: Um, or that costs too much attention?
DM: There are some things around here that fly. They don't really look like you though. They're more like long-limbed and spindly, um, with big leathery wings, and you don't really fit that description. So you look a little weird if they— if things spotted you. But on the other hand, your vision would probably be greatly improved, so it kind of works both ways.
Guntrah: What would you suggest? I'm unfamiliar with this land.
DM: I think it might be best to just try to be quiet and stealthy and just march there.
Guntrah: Yeah, okay.
DM: Perfect, I have disadvantage on stealth.
Tavian: Great.
DM: Okay, so follow me, I guess. And he starts walking, uh, hugging as much cover as he can the whole time. And actually, it goes pretty well for a while, um, assuming everybody's gonna follow. What are your marching orders? Who's in which position? Which directions are you facing?
Silas: He's first. I'm behind him.
Tito: I'll be in the back. Okay, I'll be in front of him.
Tavian: I'll be close to the front.
Tito: So yeah, we'll keep the 2 squishies in the middle.
DM: So you're in the middle?
Tito: Yeah, I'm—
DM: You're in front?
Guntrah: Yeah.
DM: You're in back?
Tito: You're also in the middle? Okay, so second in our group.
DM: 1, 2, 3, 4. Yeah, got it. Okay, uh, and obviously he's gonna be in the front because he knows the way.
Tito: Yes, that's why I said that.
DM: Uh, okay. Um, yeah, so, and I assume that you're Not all looking the same direction. You're going to be in the back looking out back, right? And as the person nearest the front, you're probably going to be looking in the front. You guys will probably take side to side.
Tavian: Okay, right.
DM: Um, so why doesn't everybody just do a perception check? Oh, and also, um, you've all noticed that since you got here— rather, let me be specific, since you left that platform, the atmosphere is just stifling. It's, it's hard to breathe.
Tito: It's extremely hot.
DM: With your plate, you're just so uncomfortable sweating inside of this thing. It's very, very hot.
Tito: But I don't have any issues breathing.
DM: No, not yet. But you feel— oh yeah, you'll never have that problem.
Tito: Yeah.
Tito: Would you?
DM: What?
Tito: 8.
Tito: 17 out of 5.
Tavian: Okay. All right.
Guntrah: What about my robot friend on my back?
DM: Uh, is he— why is he perceiving?
Guntrah: Can.
DM: Okay, he can roll too. Robot friend.
Tito: Is he sentient or how is he?
Guntrah: Probably not much better.
DM: Okay, um, pick odds or evens.
Tito: Odds.
DM: Okay, um, you rolled a 3 on your perception.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Okay, an 8, just like me. You got an 8 also?
Silas: What'd you get?
Tavian: 5.
Tito: 5.
DM: Oh geez, you guys all got really bad rolls.
Silas: Except for him.
DM: Oh, I didn't roll for him. Yeah, you got— unfortunately you were looking the wrong direction. Um, Vren got a natural 1, so nobody's really doing a great job.
Silas: He's like looking at his feet.
DM: Uh, okay, so, um, you do not hear or see anything. Fuck. Um, I'm like, I think you're good, I think we're okay. Yeah, you, you make it. You know, you've been marching for probably 20 to 30 minutes, and then you hear a shout going up to the direction that you're facing. You didn't see them because You're probably thinking about, how did I fail that? He said it wasn't my fault, but I feel like it was my fault. You're in your own head, not paying enough attention, uh, and you see that there are— there's one of those, uh, creatures, and it sees you, your group. He raises up a shout, and then he actually goes in the opposite direction.
Tavian: At what?
Tito: Like, so are we like hugging a rock wall?
DM: Yeah, it's— there's kind of patches of it, and this might maybe was in a patch where there wasn't particularly a lot of COVID So, um, so we do see visual for you, but—
Tito: And let's say we're headed this way, at what— where would he have— where would we have seen him at after he said that? Is he elevated to us? Is he behind us?
Guntrah: No, he was—
DM: he's on your level.
Tito: On, on our level, on the side?
DM: Yes, he approached from one— the side that Silas was looking out, and so he would have been to your back.
Guntrah: How far away?
DM: Um, about 70, 80 feet maybe.
Tito: But we do acknowledge him.
DM: Which is, which is almost the limit of your visibility here. And as soon as he said, hey, uh, which actually didn't speak Common, he said— he didn't say hey, he said something in Abyssal that you didn't understand unless you speak Abyssal, uh, and then he turned and left the office.
Guntrah: Before he leaves, is there anything we can do? Uh, if you—
DM: you have time for a reaction, but that's about it.
Tito: Tasha's hideous laughter.
DM: Is that a reaction?
Silas: No reaction.
Tito: Yeah, any—
DM: if you have time for a reaction, that's about it. But the, the haze that is around on the ground seems to be like maybe 8 to 10 feet high. It's pretty hard to see through.
Guntrah: I only have a reaction to help, so if anybody's got something I can help with it.
Tito: Other than that—
Silas: Okay, is there a way to tell easily what—
DM: Yeah, if you go to your actions, there's a tab just for reactions. Oh, unless you're in the app.
Tito: Go down.
DM: Oh, you're in the app, aren't you?
Tito: Oh, Absorb Elements, Feather Fall, and Shield.
DM: Useful reactions, but probably not for this. Did you have anything you can do?
Tito: Nope.
DM: I didn't even check to see if Wrenn can do anything. Action, reactions. Nothing you can do either.
Tito: All right, shit's creeped out. Yep, we're fucked.
Tito: Double time.
DM: Um, okay, so you look around immediately. Uh, there's a smaller outcropping of stone that you might be able to try to hide in. Uh, you'd have to make some pretty good stealth rolls, but it seems like he's going to get something or someone.
Guntrah: He's going to be back.
DM: So what's the move? He's— I, I don't, I don't know. I, I think we just have to find some place to hold our ground or We don't have any time to decide. We just gotta go do something. Rocks over there. All right, everybody run, run to the rocks.
Silas: Go!
DM: Okay, so you head over the rocks. You see, um, it's maybe only like 5 feet high, so if you get down on your hands and knees, maybe you can kind of hide behind it.
Tito: Um, make—
DM: everyone make stealth checks. Let's see kind of what are your footprints like.
Tito: Yep. 11.
DM: Let me see if Bren can help with this.
Silas: Is that 20?
Guntrah: I'll do, uh, I'll use a Flash of Genius to make it a 15.
Tito: Who—
DM: you, you do not have good stealth, right?
Tavian: No, I have a disadvantage on stealth checks.
DM: So recognizing that you're probably the loudest one in the group, he is going to cast Skill Empowerment, which gives you advantage on your stealth checks.
Guntrah: I think it is, but it would just give you—
Tito: it would just negate your—
DM: it has to be a skill in which the target is proficient. You're not proficient in stealth, are you?
Tavian: No.
DM: Okay, is anybody proficient in stealth? But generally not very stealthy. I mean, I can make myself, uh, let me see, because what he can do with this spell is basically double your proficiency so that you're considered expertise in that, in that ability.
Tito: Yeah, I'm just going to—
Tavian: I have something.
Silas: What the hell was it?
Tito: Use a Bardic Inspiration on him.
Tavian: Oh nice.
Tito: Oh fuck.
Tavian: I also have a level 2 ability I can cast for, uh, Cat's Grace on myself. Uh, target has advantage on dexterity checks, and I don't take fall damage falling from 20 feet or less.
Tito: How does that help us?
Tavian: Advantage on my roll on stealth.
Tito: On—
Tito: it said dexterity.
Tavian: That's stealth. Oh, is this—
DM: yeah, I don't know if it would take effect on the abilities that are based on that, or if it would— or sorry, the skills based on that ability.
Guntrah: Yeah, that's in, uh, dexterity checks is different than a skill.
DM: But, but if you're— if your dex modifier were to be modified, then that would affect the skills that go with it. But if it doesn't actually modify—
Tavian: what does it mean that— let me see if I can't click it.
Tito: Maybe if we had a dexterity saving throw.
DM: Uh, Wrenn's like, I, I— hold on, everybody crouch down. And then, uh, when everybody's kind of doing their best to hide, he's gonna cast— he's gonna upcast Invisibility.
Tito: Oh, I have Invisibility too.
DM: What's that?
Tito: I have Invisibility too. I have Greater Invisibility.
DM: Then use it! That's what I was looking for.
Silas: I thought I had that, but I don't have it.
Tito: I thought I had that, but I don't see it anywhere.
Tito: Not if he's gonna cast it. No, if he says that, I'm gonna go, hey, I got that too. Miles, did you pass yours?
Guntrah: I got a 15. I don't know.
Tito: You're like a pretty large person as well.
Guntrah: I have disadvantage on stealth.
Tito: I think you're like 8 feet tall or something, right?
Guntrah: Uh, it's because of my armor.
Tito: Well, 15 doesn't beat it at all. Cast Invisibility on you.
DM: So you're not casting Greater Invisibility then?
Tito: According to this, it's going to, uh, Wrenn's got this, dude. Wrenn's locked in.
DM: I'll target one additional creature for each spell slot above 2, and there's 4 of you guys plus himself. Yeah, so he'd have to cast at a 6th level, which is his maximum ability. Okay, so yeah, he'll do that then. It's like, ah, okay, okay, get close. And he kind of touches all of you and casts Invisibility. Uh, so everybody is now invisible. Um, why don't—
Guntrah: Which would negate the disadvantage.
DM: Well, so don't, don't— yeah, before you guys made stealth checks, he would have done this. So now you can— now that you're invisible, you either have advantage on stealth checks, or it's not disadvantaged and you didn't have to use your—
Guntrah: Well, it's not disadvantage, then, um, can I keep my roll?
Tito: Can I roll with nat 20?
DM: Yeah, yeah, you can keep your nat 20, that's fine.
Guntrah: I'll use my Flash of Genius anyways.
DM: Okay.
Guntrah: To make that a 22.
DM: Okay, does that affect yours?
Tavian: What was it?
DM: Because you would have advantage if, if you didn't have disadvantage, then now you would get advantage because he made, he made everybody invisible.
Tavian: Okay, yeah, but Cat's Grace does work the way I think it does.
DM: Oh, it does?
Guntrah: Okay.
Tavian: It just says Dex check, so any, any of the abilities that are—
DM: that's a Dex check.
Silas: I have 19.
Tavian: It's the one thing I have disadvantage in, so then I just need to roll.
DM: So are you casting Cat's Grace or not? It's not a cast, I guess, is it?
Tavian: Yeah, this is a cast.
DM: It is a spell.
Tito: Okay.
Tavian: It's a 2nd level. I'm doing Enhance Ability and picking that because I could basically pick any of them. Yeah, that's what I'm doing.
Tito: Got it.
Tavian: I'm actually 20, so he's giving me advantage with this?
DM: Yeah, he's making you invisible, which gives you advantage.
Tavian: And I'm giving myself advantage?
DM: You don't have to if you just want to accept his invisibility.
Tito: Well, yeah, if you want advantage, because his—
DM: well, that's true, he's negating your disadvantage. If you want advantage, then you gotta do that.
Tavian: All right, okay, I've already cast Cat Screen. Fuck, I had a nat 1 and then 11 minus 2 is 9.
DM: Okay, all right, uh, I'll throw a Bardic Inspiration. Well, but this is also a group check. You got 22, you got a nat 20, you got a 19.
Silas: I got 20 actually.
DM: I forget they had the +1. Okay, did you already— probably okay with that at all?
Tito: No.
Tavian: Oh, okay, if it's a group check.
DM: Yes, it's— this is a group check. So, all right, so in general, you guys are— you're invisible and you're being Mostly very quiet. And in this, you know, he went away, so he's not actually watching or hearing you in this moment, which, yeah, it helps.
Tavian: Can we move while we're invisible?
DM: You can, but he's— you're invisible, so you can't really see each other anymore.
Tavian: But I could say, like, let's walk together towards the house.
DM: When you— from where he saw you, you've already moved a little bit, right? He's gonna say, movement leads to sound. Just stay exactly where you are.
Tito: Don't move.
DM: They won't find us as long as we don't move and don't make any sound. And then almost immediately you start to hear lots of these hooves, and it's like 6 or 7 creatures coming back. And, uh, and they go back to where you were, and, uh, you can't understand what they're saying because it's in Abyssal, uh, but you hear them kind of shouting at each other, uh, and looking around. You can see them play and plain as day when you peek up over the top of this small rocky ledge, and they're, you know, scouting around looking for you. Uh, they're looking at the ground, they're trying to find tracks, they're trying to find prints. They're stupid, but they do have some, some, uh, some good instincts. Uh, so I'm gonna see how well they are. We didn't cover— uh, okay, let me see their, their perception here.
Tito: Can I ready an action Sure. Uh, if I notice them starting to come towards our direction, I'm gonna cast Thaumaturgy.
Tito: Yeah, sure.
Tito: Prestidigitation or whatever. It's only 30 feet, but if I see them starting to head our way, with— when they get closer to us, I'll create a phantom sound 30 feet away from What do I see? Is there any other hiding spots around that could be—
DM: There's small, like, 3, 4-foot-high boulders.
Tito: I'll pick a pocket that I think could be a good hiding spot where they would— and if they do come our way, I will make sure this is— I'll roll stealth first because it's a verbal spell too.
DM: Um, okay, that's probably more risky than, than doing nothing, I'll be honest. Using a— casting something that uses a verbal component When they're not that far away from you to make another verbal sound or another audible sound somewhere else.
Tito: When it says verbal though, like, how loud do I have to cast the spell in verbal? If I whisper when they're 30 feet away, they're not gonna hear me.
DM: Um, it would be another stealth check to see how quiet you can be.
Guntrah: I was going to try to do something too.
Tito: Okay.
Guntrah: I was going to lean down Quietly let the robot off, and then if they were to get too close—
DM: Uh, I would say if you do that, it's not going to be invisible because its invisibility was kind of attached to you.
Guntrah: Sure, I want to let him off if they get too close, and then I'm going to instruct him to run.
DM: Oh, okay, okay. So you want him to be visible?
Guntrah: Yeah, I want him to— once I drop him, he'll go visible, or visible, and then Run off in the opposite direction to us, hopefully taking them.
DM: Okay, so they, they do— they kind of yell at each other for a minute, and then they start to fan out and spread out. They go kind of in opposite directions. One of them does come into your general direction. He's not looking at you, he's kind of just doing one of these, like, looking around. Uh, he gets maybe within, like, you know, 15 to 20 feet from where you are currently hidden behind these rocks. Uh, doesn't seem like he's found you, but he's close. And then eventually he kind of walks back to the middle, yells at one of the others.
Tito: How many are there?
DM: 6 or 7. Oh, never mind. Yeah. Um, yeah, so it doesn't seem— doesn't seem like they're gonna find you. Uh, and then as they kind of give up the search They start literally clawing and slashing at each other. They start an actual fight. They start killing each other. Uh, you could use this as an— as a— as a time to quietly and invisibly leave, or you could watch and see how it goes.
Guntrah: And this is not an XP game though, right?
DM: You're not getting XP for this, no.
Guntrah: So if we were to wait for me to get a little health and then we attack, it does help us? Uh, yeah.
Tito: Maybe.
Guntrah: I'm just saying we're not playing XP-based.
DM: No, it's not an XP thing. You won't get the full XP because you did the finishing blow on a 99% wounded thing.
Guntrah: That's not how this works.
Tito: I don't even feel like it's risky to even discuss battle plans at this point.
Tavian: Yeah, or to move, like, even though they're causing a ruckus.
Tito: Yeah, because we wouldn't be able to move without them.
DM: Probably just hold tight. Okay, so you hold tight, and like I said, they're, they're slashing and stomping at each other. And, uh, let me see here, see how many survived this. Uh, one of them. There's literally— they kill each other to the point where there's one bloodied one left and the others are all on the ground dead.
Guntrah: How far away?
DM: About 30 to 40 feet.
Tito: Let's attack.
Tito: All attack at once.
Guntrah: I'm gonna fire 2 crossbow bolts.
Silas: We're still invisible, right?
Tavian: So yes, he won't be as soon as—
DM: yeah, as soon as he fires the crossbow.
Guntrah: Yeah, but it's advantage on the first attack.
DM: Uh, yeah, go ahead and roll.
Guntrah: Um, it hits that. Yeah, 28.
DM: Uh, yeah, that's a hit.
Tito: Okay, why does he get advantage? Do we all get advantage?
DM: When you, when you come from a hidden state for an attack, you get advantage. If the person you're attacking does not know where you are, you have advantage.
Guntrah: That is 13 points of piercing damage.
DM: Okay, he's still alive, and he turns around in your direction after the first shot. And, uh, sees you, make eye contact.
Tito: After he shoots that second bolt, I'm gonna do something.
DM: Well, if he survives the second bolt, we're rolling initiative since nobody has anything. Well, you had readied something else. Well, so you can do something else, but you can't do something different.
Guntrah: Can I do an Arcane Jolt?
DM: What is that?
Guntrah: Once per turn, when you hit a target with a magical weapon, Your attack or your Steel Defender target, you choose to deliver an extra 2d6 damage.
Tito: Yep.
Guntrah: Or restore 2d6 damage to the creature.
DM: You can pump 2d6 more into him if you're electric, whatever.
Tito: You can shoot me with a crossbow.
Guntrah: 9.
DM: Okay, uh, he's got just a couple hit points left.
Guntrah: And I'll attack again. Okay, that's gonna be 21.
DM: Uh, that's gonna hit him and kill him.
Tito: Nice.
DM: So yeah, you pump a few bolts into him and he drops down and dead, just like the other 5 next to him on the ground.
Tito: Best not to leave any alive.
DM: It's actually not a bad point.
Tavian: With the tactical mine.
Guntrah: And they're not that far away, right?
DM: Uh, no, they're like 30, 40 feet away. How many were they?
Guntrah: Scattered around.
DM: They're all dead, the ones—
Tavian: Oh right, okay.
Tito: 6 or 7.
DM: Let's go loot them. They don't— I mean, from experience, they don't have anything to loot. They are entirely natural creatures with their claws, their hooves, their horns. Okay, well, all right, let's keep moving.
Tito: Let's get out of here.
DM: All right, yeah, yeah, yeah. You kind of wake Vren up from a stupor. He didn't seem to have handled that particularly well. Um, I guess you can't see him, so you don't know that. Uh, yeah, so—
Guntrah: Well, I lost my invisibility.
DM: I mean, we can't see each other anymore, so just Grab onto somebody next to you.
Tito: Oh, I'm visible.
DM: Oh yeah, you're visible. Um, here, let me, let me— I'll just kind of stand behind you and push you in the right direction.
Tavian: Does that work?
DM: We can all follow you.
Guntrah: Well, I mean, what do you have to do with everyone who's invisible?
Tito: We can make a chain.
DM: Sure, but since you're not invisible, does anybody have Simple Invisibility?
Tito: What is simple?
Guntrah: Which is like the regular invisibility spell.
DM: Invisibility doesn't last that long.
Guntrah: There's greater and there's simple.
DM: Uh, up to an hour. So yeah, you can go the whole rest of the way.
Guntrah: So if you have invisibility, like, you can cast it lower, just get one target like me, you're already visible from him.
Tito: Well, the problem is if we're all invisible, we're not gonna be able to follow each other.
Guntrah: Well, we're in a chain.
Tito: Yeah.
Tito: Oh, I guess if we hold each other.
Guntrah: Yeah. We'd also just take an Adventuring Rope and hold it.
Tavian: Or just watch the footsteps.
Tito: I don't have Invisibility, I just have Greater Invisibility. It's a 4th-level spell. I cannot afford to cast that one.
DM: Well, he can't cast it because he's concentrating on the first casting. He'll lose that if he recasts.
Tito: All right, I got him. I touch him and he becomes invisible.
DM: Oh, you're the only one with Invisibility? Okay, you don't have it?
Silas: I do, but—
Guntrah: Is it Greater Invisibility?
Silas: It's just regular Invisibility.
Guntrah: Well, that's lower.
DM: Yeah, you can cast it at 1st level, I think.
Silas: Yeah, the creature you touch becomes invisible until the spell ends.
Guntrah: Yeah, just cast it at a lower level.
DM: Cast it at the 1st level because you only need one person.
Tito: Okay.
DM: Although, wait, wait, wait, you casting is gonna break you being invisible, so you have to cast it at level 2 because you'll have to reapply your invisibility and make sure—
Guntrah: Oh wait, I want to cast it again.
DM: So don't do a 1st level, do a 2nd level. So you can stay invisible. So then you're concentrating on your invisibility, Vren's concentrating on the other 3.
Guntrah: Wait, yeah, because you're casting a spell—
Silas: wait, this is—
DM: oh no, it says above level 2. You can target 1 additional creature for each spell slot level above 2, so you have to cast it at a 3rd level to get a 2nd person. It's okay, I'll be all right. You're the— you're so noisy and big.
Silas: Big dog.
Tavian: All right, well, I'm concentrating on my cat's grace for an hour.
Silas: And I asked— I kind of asked, is there— do you think there's more of these creatures then?
DM: There's definitely more of them. Whether or not we encounter them, I can't say, but there's definitely— there's hundreds of thousands on this plane.
Silas: Well, then I go ahead and I just cast it at 3rd level.
Guntrah: All right, thanks, Silas.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Okay, uh, all right, take, take this, take this rope. And, uh, you got a chain of rope, chain rope. You start heading, uh, continue on the direction you were headed to an elephant line. Um, after about 25 to 30 more minutes, you start to see— he described it as a house. It doesn't look like a house. It looks like an outpost or very miniature fortress. Like, it's, it's a defensive building. more than it is a house. It is not in very good condition. There's cracks all over it. Uh, it looks like it's not really particularly livable. It's pretty big though. I would say, you know, maybe a dozen rooms inside based on your appearance from the outside. Um, I'm not gonna estimate like a square footage, but, uh, but yeah, big enough. And you don't see, um, Anything—
Tito: any—
DM: anybody looking out, uh, like from a watchtower or anything like that. It doesn't seem like it's particularly well guarded. And you see from the direction that you're coming, you're coming at it from kind of from the side, so it looks like maybe just a flat wall, no windows or anything like that. Um, it does have a second floor. Uh, and then as you're walking and there's nobody nearby, Wren can kind of describe things for you. He says, I've, you know, I've been here a few times, um, with Morvec, you know, when he gives me things and tells me exactly what to do. And, um, he's, he's like I said, he's leasing this place from, from this demon. Uh, there's— I've never— I'm not allowed in the basement. I've heard some crazy noises coming from the basement, um, like some creature down there, but I— it doesn't seem to be— nobody seems particularly I'm not particularly worried that it's going to get out or anything. And like I said, whenever he arrives or leaves, it seems to be from the basement, so I assume that there's something down there. But I'm optimistic that we'll find a way to get out if we can get down there. There's, like I said, those skeletons that kind of do some tasks on the first floor. There's some rooms upstairs on the second floor, including Morvek's room, which, like I said, his door is usually locked. And it has some arcane fortifications. Don't try anything. Uh, and yeah, that's about it.
Tito: All right, well, let's get inside. Let's get safe.
DM: Okay, so you— as you get closer, uh, you see, um, you get closer to the wall, you see there are some cracks, uh, maybe, maybe some that are big enough for you smaller folk to slip into, but I'd say an Orc and a half-orc, and maybe even a paladin with heavy plate mail, probably gonna struggle to get through some of these smaller cracks. Um, he, uh, Bren tells you that there's a back door around the left, and then there's a front door around to the right. Um, front door is probably going to be— have somebody there, or maybe, maybe it'll be locked or guarded or something. You don't have a key?
Tito: No, I don't have a key.
Guntrah: You just can't get in?
DM: I'm, I'm only ever here when Morvek's here and he runs the place, so—
Tito: You just can't come in for supplies?
DM: I, I'm given all the supplies I need and I'm told that's what I'm— that's what I get.
Silas: You get what you get, you don't throw a fit.
Tito: Gun, let me see your freaking lockpick, dude.
DM: Um, and since it's been a full hour, uh, everybody— I, I would say you're— does it tell you how much water you have in your water skins? Does it give you a specific amount? I'd say standard is like 5 days worth of water at best.
Tito: Nice.
DM: All right, sorry, 5 hours. 5 hours worth of water. 4 pints for an hour. 4 pints? That's how big your waterskin is?
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Holy shit, that's a lot.
Tavian: Okay.
DM: And the weight doesn't change either.
Guntrah: 4 pints ain't that much.
DM: It's 5 pounds.
Tito: It says it weighs 5 pounds.
DM: 4 pints is not one drink.
Silas: No, 4 pints is like a big thing I get.
DM: Like, a pint's the large—
Guntrah: like, it's water.
DM: No, a large glass of water. At Primeval, it's like the big— before the big mug. That's a glass of water. No, but that's like a— it's a little bit bigger than a glass.
Guntrah: I guess I drink a lot more water than you guys.
Silas: It's like 19— it's 19 ounces.
DM: A pint's only 19 ounces?
Tito: I thought it was 12 or 16.
DM: I thought it was like 24.
Tavian: 16 ounces is—
DM: 16 is a pint.
Tito: Yeah, I think 16 is a pint.
DM: It's a Coke. Or 16.8. Maybe it's 16.8.
Guntrah: 16 is a pint.
DM: 16.9 is a— isn't that a half a pint?
Tito: A pint is 16 ounces.
Guntrah: Dude, I know alcohol, no question.
DM: Okay, so you have 4 pints, which is each 4 ounces. 4 alcohol drinks, which is a beer. So you have 64 ounces of water. Yeah, that's enough for a drink for a couple days.
Silas: Well, you don't drink the whole—
DM: Yeah, you don't have to drink it.
Silas: 16 ounces, you would just take a little sip. You wouldn't be like chugging the whole 16 ounces.
Guntrah: Dude, I drink a lot of fucking water.
DM: So you 3 all have enough water And Wrenn has enough water in his wineskin. Now, you are in a place where you have to consume more than normal, to be fair.
Tito: This isn't like—
DM: This is a half gallon of water. This isn't like, like a, you know, an afternoon in the middle of spring in Indiana.
Guntrah: But I'm over at Ollie going—
DM: Ollie does not have any water.
Guntrah: Thanks, buddy.
DM: So, uh, I'll say you need to drink a pint— I was gonna say pint an hour, but I think 5 hours worth of water Is, is what's designed for, for this. And I think that's appropriate given the exhaustion that you're experiencing just from being, you know, breathing in this atmosphere. So we'll say you have 5 hours worth of water and everybody has to consume one of those right now. So you've got 4 left. Somebody has to share with him or he's going to get a level of exhaustion. Why do you get the water in your thing?
Tito: I designed you for that. Why are we—
Tavian: I share, I share it with him.
DM: Okay.
Tito: Oh, if you don't have any water.
DM: So you've got 3 hours worth, so 3 drinks worth left.
Guntrah: At some point though, probably after this, I do want to get an Adventurer's Pack, but I do want it to be Ollie having a water spout.
DM: He will be your backpack with all the adventuring stuff in it. And I do want to have a spout.
Tito: Okay.
Guntrah: And I can pull out stuff.
DM: Okay, got it.
Guntrah: Okay, he's my backpack. I put them all—
DM: got it. Um, okay, so You, uh, do you want to go around to the front door or the back door?
Tito: Well, it's safer for the back.
DM: Yeah, back door is probably going to be safer. Again, I don't— I've never been here.
Guntrah: Messier always.
DM: What's that?
Guntrah: It's messier always.
DM: That's going to be recorded. Thank you. Um, he takes you around to the back door, and, uh, you're all still invisible, uh, because you didn't throw the invisibility on until the 30-minute mark. So you still have 30 more minutes of invisibility. He tries the door and it does have a lock on it.
Tito: Give me your lockpick.
Guntrah: Wait, wait, wait, hold on. Can I do an Arcana check to unlock?
DM: An Arcana check to unlock? It's not a magical lock.
Guntrah: No, no, no, on the lock to see if it's—
DM: Oh yeah, yeah, sorry, go ahead.
Guntrah: That's a 17.
DM: It doesn't seem like there's anything magical about Seems like it's just a regular lock.
Guntrah: And then it's sleight of hand, right, for picking locks?
DM: So picking a lock, you can't— you cannot attempt to pick a lock unless you have a lockpicking kit. If you have a lockpicking kit and you're proficient with it, then you can add your proficiency modifier to your sleight of hand modifier for your roll, right? If you don't have proficiency with a lockpick, you don't get to— I think you still use your sleight of hand, but I don't know if you subtract proficiency or if you just leave it normal.
Tito: Hold on.
Guntrah: I usually leave it normal, right?
Tito: What's your sleight of hand?
Guntrah: My sleight of hand's +1, but I'm the only one with an all-purpose tool.
Tito: Yeah, I know, that's why I said give it to me.
Guntrah: Yeah, but I'm not actually all— I'm not sure if the all-purpose tool works the same if I gave it to someone else.
Tavian: Is that attuned?
Guntrah: It's a— it's an attunement thing.
Tavian: Is it?
Guntrah: Yeah, it's an attunement tool.
Tito: That is— that would not work. What does it say?
DM: Yeah, so it's just, it's just a d20 plus your Sleight of Hand.
Guntrah: And we have to be attuned to use it.
Tito: Do you have to be attuned to use it? You have to be attuned to have it.
DM: Yeah, what is the verbiage for your all-purpose tool?
Guntrah: This is a simple screwdriver, can transform into a variety of tools. As an action, you can touch the item and transform it to any type of artisan tool. Artisan tool though.
DM: Yeah, so you can make a lockpicking kit as an action.
Guntrah: While holding this tool, you gain +1 bonus to spell attack and brand. So you're telling me I can make— as an action, you can focus—
DM: and there's— I think there's a limited number of times you can do that per day or something.
Guntrah: So I can make a lockpick.
DM: You turn Yes, you turn your all-purpose tool into a lockpick.
Tito: It doesn't say anything about letting somebody else use it.
Guntrah: Well, it's attuned, so I don't know what that means.
DM: Um, no, yeah, you can let somebody else use it. You can keep attunement on it and keep it in its shape.
Tito: Yeah.
Guntrah: Okay. Um, all right, what's your sleight?
Tavian: -2.
Tito: Oh, fuck. Is yours good?
Tavian: Uh, probably not as a wizard.
DM: You guys don't really have a first one for that.
Tito: Nice.
Guntrah: I'm the best one. Plus 1.
Tito: I got plus 4.
Silas: I got plus 1.
Guntrah: Yeah, I can give it to you.
DM: Um, Wrenn has plus 6. Do you want me to do it?
Tito: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Tito: All right, here you go. All right, hold on.
DM: Uh, 19 plus 6. Yeah. Uh, just really quick, that's basically like a keep. Well, well, I haven't done anything before, have you? Make sure it gives it back to you. Uh, so yeah, he hands it back to you, uh, and then opens the door, heads inside. Um, he's— you can't see him, but you, based on the sounds of his footsteps, it doesn't seem like he's trying to be stealthy anymore. He's not really concerned about that. He's just kind of waltzing in. Obviously you still can't see him though.
Tito: Whoever walks in the door last, I say lock it.
DM: Uh, so yeah, are you guys still holding on to the rope following him in?
Guntrah: Yeah, that'd be me last in. And I'll, uh, lock.
DM: Okay, uh, you lock it behind you. Um, it's, uh, like I said, it's kind of a shitty place. It's, it's a house in the sense that it has the rooms of a house, uh, but it's, it's stone, it's crumbling, um, it's just in really bad shape. Uh, you're kind of in this back hallway. There's a kitchen area, uh, barely even a kitchen area. It technically qualifies, but, uh, and then you see he's walking through. There's a couple of rooms with shut doors. And then you can see a door that looks like it was at some point iron-banded. At this point now, it's mostly just rotting wood with some iron, um, and— but it does seem to have a lock on it. And that, uh, he indicates is the basement, and that's where he's gonna go. You see past the door, that further down the hall, you do see one of those skeletons just kind of And it's carrying something in its hands.
Guntrah: Just again, it doesn't acknowledge us.
Tito: What?
Guntrah: Does it acknowledge?
DM: No, it doesn't. It doesn't look at you, doesn't do anything. Just keeps doing what it's programmed to do. Basement, right?
Guntrah: Or back door.
DM: You're already inside. You went through the back door to get inside, and inside you see there is a door to the basement where Brenna is taking over.
Guntrah: I'm gonna ask him, do you know anything about the creature?
DM: Um, no, I've never been in the basement.
Tito: I just—
DM: I, I hear it sometimes. It sounds loud.
Guntrah: How strong is this, uh, lich?
DM: Uh, way more powerful than me. And you can tell based on the fact that he can't— he upcast invisibility. He's probably a little bit stronger than Silas.
Guntrah: Are we sure we can subdue this creature?
Tito: They probably like my level.
DM: I don't think he'll be a problem, but I can't make promises.
Silas: I don't know.
DM: I don't think we'll have to subdue him. I really don't know.
Tito: If this is the only way out, let's go.
DM: If this doesn't work, we can always just go back to the platform. But I, I should have— I should have said the reason that I was at that platform, the reason that I worked there and that's where I was, and the reason where you— why you arrived there. Ever since the Spellplague, there's very limited planar travel. I'm sure you already know this, but, um, it's, it's almost impossible to go from one plane to another except for various spots where the veil is the thinnest, and that's one of those spots. That's why that area was constructed. That's why I was, I was working there. Um, I would assume because of more of X traveling from this house, this is another one of those spots. I, I don't know that, but that's my assumption. I'm trying to get out of here before this lich shows up.
Tito: I— he's—
DM: he said he would be back tomorrow, so I, I don't think that there's really any risk of that. Unless—
Tito: if—
Tito: unless—
DM: well, I cannot go with you. I hope you understand that. I would love to. I would love to break free from this predicament, but I cannot go with you. If I were to leave the plane, he would know immediately, and he would follow me, and he would kill all of you.
Guntrah: So is he an early riser?
DM: Is he an early riser? Does he get up early? At dawn, I suppose.
Guntrah: Um, then what's your character's name again? Sorry.
Tito: Tavian. Tavian, who is going first?
Silas: Going where?
Tito: Basement.
DM: Now, if you want my opinion, this man is the one that you need to take care of. If he dies, I can't cast the spell for you because then I go with you and then we all die. So He's the only one that has the capability of doing this, so you need to make sure he stays alive.
Guntrah: We'll keep him in the back.
Tavian: All right.
DM: And he uses a— sorry, can I borrow that key you gave me before I got out?
Silas: Sure.
Guntrah: And as he does that, I put Ollie on the ground. There you go. Hey, we're going down there, right? I want you in the front.
Tito: I really reiterate again, just like, make sure you get that tool back.
DM: Make sure you get that back.
Tavian: I do want to cast, uh, Find Steed.
DM: In the house?
Guntrah: Sure.
Tito: What?
Tavian: Okay, it's a spirit warhorse.
Guntrah: And I put it in front.
Tavian: I can communicate with it telepathically up to a mile distance, so I'm gonna keep him upstairs and basically be the eyes on the Oh, okay, just as a scout.
DM: Okay, well, he barely— he would barely fit in these hallways. She can do it.
Silas: Yeah, I mean, I could do it too if I've got the familiar thing, you know, like the—
DM: Oh, Find Familiar?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Oh shoot, okay, it's a much cheaper way to do it.
Silas: Yeah, I'll just do that.
DM: Just trying to get your steed out here. I know, trying to do something.
Tavian: You had to take this.
Guntrah: I would love to do Paladin mounted combat.
Tito: You almost talked me into it last time, but yeah, it's sick.
Tito: Just—
DM: I've got a spirit warhorse.
Tavian: They can fight like independently.
Tito: Yeah, that's what I wanted to do. Yeah, because I wanted to take the mounted combat feat.
DM: Okay, so are you doing Find Familiar?
Silas: Yes.
DM: Does it take 11 minutes to cast ritually, or are you casting it as an action?
Tavian: Mine would take 10 minutes to work on as an action.
Tito: That's good.
Silas: Oh yeah, it says— is that right? Casting time 1 hour plus 10 minutes.
DM: For Find Familiar, it might be.
Guntrah: I'm not sure.
Tavian: Yeah, mine's 10 minutes, but mine's just a spirit.
Silas: Oh, mine says 1 hour plus 2 minutes.
Guntrah: Is that ritual though? Is there an R?
DM: You might be able to alternatively cast it using a spell slot faster.
Silas: Oh, it says as ritual.
DM: Yeah, so it's instantaneously— well, some people can only cast it as a ritual, and that's— and that might be what his is.
Guntrah: Nah, he's a wizard.
Tito: I know.
Guntrah: You were a wizard.
Tito: I know.
DM: But it depends if you take that spell as one of your spells, or if you're granting—
Silas: Where does it say duration?
DM: Through your ritual.
Tito: What's that?
Tito: It doesn't, it doesn't verify.
DM: It does say casting time 1 hour plus 10 minutes. Uh, go— can you close this window so we can see the— where it says ritual right here? As ritual.
Tito: Um, yeah, if it's—
DM: yeah, so it would be, it would be listed twice probably if you could cast it as a non-ritual.
Tito: Yeah, it's a summoning spell. Yeah, so it looks like we are getting the warhorse.
Tavian: Yeah, the ritual is the extra 10 minutes. It's 70 minutes total. Casting it normally with the spell slot still takes the full hour.
Tito: Okay.
Silas: Jesus, so I guess I can't do it that quick.
Tito: Yeah, so the Comprehend Languages, the Alarm, this is all average.
Silas: So you, uh So if I do it—
DM: so wait, we can't, we can't wait an hour for you to do that. And you said it takes 10 minutes for you to summon a steed. If either one of you do that, you're going to lose your invisibility. So if we go down there, oh, and you're visible, that's another risk.
Guntrah: Don't worry, I got Ollie.
Tito: You'll be all right.
DM: All right, so you're gonna leave the little robot?
Guntrah: I either leave the robot in front of us or behind us.
Tito: Let's leave Ollie behind us.
Tavian: Because we're invisible going down.
Guntrah: Okay, so Ollie will go behind us.
DM: And you can communicate with him if you're down there and he's up here?
Tito: Fuck yeah. I don't know.
Silas: So what does it mean? What does the as ritual mean on these, all these different ones?
DM: It doesn't take a spell slot. It's basically free.
Silas: Oh, that's why. Okay, yeah, I noticed that there was some— I was like, I can't even get rid of that. I see.
DM: Yeah, so what you should do, uh, in the future is just precast it. So You know, right? You know, whenever something— before something starts, you have already—
Tito: you're already done.
Silas: Then, because I was going to do that at some point, because I see that you can like keep it like a pocket thing, and then like a universe or something, or whatever they called it—
DM: pocket dimension—
Silas: dimension. Then you could just be like, oh, I'm bringing it back.
DM: And that way, in the last campaign, Curse of Strahd, my mouse or rat or whatever was, was that.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: And so I would— I would basically, when I woke up, I would ritually cast it How long does it last? Um, some of them are different. Some of them are 8 hours, some of them are 24 hours, some are indefinite. I don't remember that particular one.
Guntrah: It doesn't say if I can communicate with the telepathic or not.
Tito: I would say—
DM: I, I bet you probably can.
Guntrah: I mean, if anything, I can give it a command of like, if something happens, do this. Yeah, I can set it up with a trigger method.
DM: Wait, this isn't a homunculus, this is a Steel Defender.
Guntrah: Yeah, I mean, at the very least, they'd be like, hey, if something happens—
DM: Is it a robot that he made? Yeah, robot that you made.
Tito: There's no way it's gonna be able to telepathically communicate, right?
DM: It's arcane infused, right? It's magical. It is portrayed as a physical entity, and it is a physical entity, but it's powered by magic. Um, it does— yeah, ChatGPT says no, an artificer does not normally communicate with a telepath.
Guntrah: But I could say something like, yo, Ollie, uh, get instructions.
Tito: Yeah, we can make some noise.
Guntrah: If something goes down up here, close the door and run down.
DM: Something goes down, down, or up, or if something happens, because he's like, he's saying something happened upstairs.
Guntrah: Something happens upstairs. Come in, close the door, run down.
Tito: Okay. All right.
Guntrah: And then at that point I can communicate with it.
DM: Got it.
Guntrah: So he's got a prepared reaction.
Tito: Got it.
Tito: Or action.
DM: A reaction's fine.
Silas: Yeah, mine looks like that familiar just lasts forever unless it goes down to 0 hit points.
DM: Yeah, I think it just keeps it in your pocket dimension until you want it.
Guntrah: You should just state that you ritually cast it every— like Derek said.
Tito: Yeah, from now on.
DM: Yeah, from now on we'll just say at the beginning of the day you just cast it so you have it.
Guntrah: Now what is your—
Tito: what is your familiar?
Tito: It's a toad named Trevor.
Silas: No, it's a— it's a, uh, it's a hawk named Wind.
Tito: That's funny.
Silas: That's my high school, uh, mascot in Minnesota.
DM: We were the Winona Windhawks. Okay, uh, so, uh, I rolled— he rolled a 13 plus 6, 19, which was good enough to open the door. Gives you your tool back once more.
Tito: Thank you.
DM: Uh, and he starts to go down the stairs.
Tavian: Uh, who's—
DM: you're gonna follow first? Same order as last time? You're in the back.
Guntrah: No, no, no, I'm gonna go in the front. You're gonna go with him, and then your squishies are gonna go this guy and this guy. So you're gonna go in the back, and Ollie's gonna sit at the stair going—
DM: Ollie's gonna stay at the top of the stairs.
Tito: You have shield?
Tito: You have shield?
Tito: I do have shield.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Okay, so you start heading down the stairs, um, and you realize you're, um, going into the center. That this basement doesn't appear to be subdivided into rooms, it's just one big room, like underneath the structure. Um, you can tell there's torchlight from the bottom of the stairs. You can see that it's just as crumbled as the rest of the room, maybe a little less so, I suppose.
Tito: How big is it?
DM: Uh, well, so as you get down to the bottom, um, you, you know, you start to get below the ceiling height of there and you can see the entire room. Uh, it's large. It's probably I don't know, maybe 50 feet across or so, 50 to 60 feet across, maybe like 70 or 80 feet long. It's, it's the whole, the whole structure underneath, but there's a couple of pillars. There's like 4 pillars holding it up.
Tito: The structural integrity of this thing would collapse completely.
DM: You're exactly right.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Um, and, uh, and you see on the far right corner there is a human in tattered clothes working like hunched over a table similar to what, uh, Bren was when you found him at this— at the ritual site. Does he notice us? Uh, yeah, as you get to the bottom, he turns and looks at you.
Tavian: We're invisible, right?
Silas: Did you say it's human?
Tito: Oh, we are invisible.
DM: Uh, yes, we're invisible. Um, right, do stealth checks for me please. Uh, we'll go in order that you're—
Tavian: So we're still invisible and I still have Cat's Grace?
DM: You get advantage on your stealth checks.
Guntrah: Yeah, natural 20.
Silas: Oh, I didn't—
Tito: fucking shit.
Tavian: I got a 6. Rolled a 2 and an 8.
Silas: A dirty 20.
Guntrah: I'll flash a Genius.
Tito: I have a dirty 20.
DM: Uh, Brian got a nat 1.
Guntrah: Flashing Genius. I mean, what, what's more effective?
DM: Uh, I don't think it's gonna matter. Yeah, he got it.
Tito: He got a nat 1.
DM: Brian got a nat 1 and he's the first one downstairs.
Guntrah: Okay, so I won't flash the Genius him.
DM: Yeah, probably save it. Uh, so Wrenn's going and he's being very loud about it, and he, he was kind of— earlier it seemed like he wasn't particularly caring about it. It did seem like maybe he was trying not to be loud this time, but regardless, maybe he skipped a step and, and actually was sort of stumbling, had to catch himself at the bottom. Um, but yeah, so the— this human, uh, that's wearing these, you know, these tattered clothes kind of looks over, uh, in the direction of the stairs.
Tito: Um, he says, uh, what are you doing here?
DM: Is anybody gonna respond?
Guntrah: I'm gonna wait to see what Wren does.
DM: Can he see him? Uh, he's looking in the direction of what the— where the noise was.
Tito: Okay.
DM: He says, uh, what are you doing here?
Guntrah: Uh, I'm gonna see what the guy does.
DM: You want me to be Wren? Okay. Um, Wren's, uh, he kind of thinks, thinks about it for a minute. He goes, Um, I, uh, uh, Morvek sent me here to, to get some more vellum. Uh, yeah. Uh, and then he's gonna— I don't know, I'm thinking, can he drop invisibility on just himself?
Guntrah: As he talks though, is it possible that I can kind of move to the side? So I, I like to move to the side of him, like not like directly behind him like it was.
DM: So like I said, you pursue— pretend this room is the basement. You come down the stairs right here, he's at a workbench back there, so there's walls.
Guntrah: Sure.
Tavian: Yeah, but instead of being right in the opening, he wants to move out.
DM: You want to just go off to the left?
Tavian: I'm gonna sidestep.
DM: Okay, um, make a perception check for me. Uh, yes, a caster can, if they're concentrating on an invisibility spell affecting multiple creatures, they can pick and choose. They can end it entirely— oh wait, they cannot normally end it for just themselves while keeping the other targets invisible.
Guntrah: Um, I got a 15.
Tavian: Oh sweet, so we all fall out of it?
DM: Well, if that's what he wants to do. I'm trying to decide if that's what he would do.
Tavian: Well, as soon as he tripped and lost his invisibility—
DM: He didn't lose it, he's still invisible. He's making a sound. Is the guy just like—
Guntrah: okay, I got a 15 though, or perception.
DM: I'll let you guys decide what you think he should do. Should he drop his— should he drop the party— not the party visibility, because you two are on a separate invisibility. He would be dropping it for himself and for you two.
Tito: And why would he do that?
DM: Because the—
Tavian: he's, he's answering the guy.
DM: He's trying to be diplomatic. Yeah, he's, he's, he's not trying to be aggressive or confrontational. He's saying that he's here on an errand Yeah, I'd say he's gonna drop it.
Tito: So that's my— okay, so that would be the logical thing.
DM: So when he drops his invisibility, you guys standing, you know, almost— you're staying right behind him. Yeah, you're probably both like—
Tavian: Well, I tend to be behind him if he moves, so—
DM: Right, so you would have scooted up. Yeah, so then all 3 of you, more, uh, Brennan, you guys both become visible, uh, and, uh, and he says, uh, I, I found these 2 out in the wastes and, and they, um, they're gonna help me. I'm gonna make a deception check for Wrenn. Plus 0. He rolled an 18 though, so let's do an insight check.
Guntrah: Can I do a Flash of Genius on that?
DM: Sure. How does that work, by the way, that Flash of Genius?
Tito: It's a reaction.
DM: You just add something to it.
Guntrah: When you or another creature see within 30 feet, if you make an ability check or a saving throw, you use your reaction, add +5.
DM: +5. Okay, so that takes it up to a 23.
Tavian: Yes.
DM: Unlimited on that? Uh, 5 per day.
Guntrah: So I'm gonna give him +5 for that.
Tito: Okay.
DM: All right, so that puts him up to a 23.
Guntrah: Um, he's much harder. Artificer is pretty cool.
Tavian: Oh, he's doing a contested roll for deception and insight.
Guntrah: Yeah, so I'm making that higher.
DM: Yeah, so, and I have no idea what his insight would be, so I'm just going to do a general d20. Uh, okay. Um, yeah, it seems, it seems like it worked. Um, The, uh, human creature, uh, says, uh, take what you need. And he looks back down at his workshop and he starts doing some more work. Um, what was your perception check I asked you to roll?
Guntrah: 15.
DM: Okay, when you started to the left, you noticed that there was kind of— when stairs came down, uh, there were the walls that was on the back wall was actually pushed back and there was some like areas to the side of the stairs, and you see another one of these human creatures was working quietly to the left where— when you started to go that way. Um, and he looked over at the conversation the other 2 were having, but you also noticed that his eyes tracked you while you were moving invisibly. Uh, Wrenn is going to start heading over to the back left corner of the room too, so that The person behind you— The same eyes that he's supposed to be getting.
Guntrah: It tracked, tracked me.
DM: The person— yeah, the person that was behind you when you came down the stairs, that you, you caught their eye when you, when you were turning. Um, you saw, you saw him and you realized he was looking at the conversation Bren was having with the other human. But then when you continue to move, you notice that his eyes watched you.
Tito: So there's a whole nother person, but we don't know that.
DM: You guys don't yet.
Tito: You—
DM: nobody else knows he exists because you didn't turn and look. He's the only one that knows about it.
Tavian: Following politely and quietly behind Vren.
Guntrah: Give me a few seconds here.
Tavian: Let me think.
Tito: I'm staying as close as possible to—
DM: Yeah, so you guys are visible. You're continuing to follow Vren towards the other empty—
Tito: I mean, I guess I would be looking around like, um, just—
DM: Yeah, if you just want to do that, if you just want to look around like, oh, this is an interesting place, I would be looking—
Tito: do what?
DM: Yeah, I would say go ahead and roll Perception then. So I'm smart though.
Guntrah: Yes.
DM: So would I, uh, 10? Okay, you see him, but you don't notice anything. You just think he's another, you know, same as the other guy.
Tito: I mean, I'd be startled.
Guntrah: Presumptively, you would assume that these people are still under the hold of the lich, right?
DM: You would assume they are working for Morvec, yes.
Guntrah: Based on the guy we have helped, he doesn't want to be, right?
DM: He would prefer not to be in the service of Morvec. He made it very clear.
Guntrah: It's like, could I suss out whether or not these people would also— it's like, it's like my decisions here are 2 things: let it ride, hoping that they don't give a shit because they're not really On the Lich's side like that guy is, or they're on the side of the Lich, and so it's like they're clocking us and gonna do something.
Tavian: Yeah, we shouldn't know this though.
DM: Well, he's, he's relaying his intelligence out loud. Um, this is what he's thinking.
Tito: All right.
Guntrah: Um, because like, yeah, I'm sitting there going like, I have my crossbow, I'm going, you noticed us, I've watched it. Do I strike first, or is he like the other guy who doesn't really give a shit about the lich but just has to do what he has to do? That's the play.
DM: Yeah, it's a— it's your decision. Those are your, your thoughts, and it's your decision to make.
Tito: What's your alignment?
Guntrah: I'm a pretty good guy.
DM: If you were to put a crossbow bolt in his head Would you consider that murder? Yeah, because that would be a pretty good—
Guntrah: What I'm gonna say is I'm gonna ready an action. Okay, the guy that noticed me, yep, that if he does anything to be in violence towards us or anybody, that I will fire off before him.
DM: Got it, makes sense.
Tito: Perfect.
DM: Okay, um, So yeah, Bren makes his way over to the workbench. Uh, you guys are following him. Uh, he's kind of miming doing things. He's not actually doing it. Like, he might pick some things up, put some things down. Maybe he takes some empty parchment, puts it on the table. He's pretending to work. Um, and then, uh— I'm gonna fiddle with stuff. Yeah. Uh, he, he's gonna whisper. Bren's gonna whisper. Pretend like you're inspecting the circle on the ground in the center of the room and just try not to draw attention to yourself, please. Uh, and as you see, uh, there is the, the center of this basement does have a very large, uh, ornately, uh, I don't think it's carved, it's more like an inlay, right? When you have like a, uh, gems— it's not gems, but like a, a different material embedded inside.
Tito: Oh yeah.
DM: So there's this inlaid circle in the center of the room that does look not that different than the one that was at the ritual site. This one does have a very faint glow to it. It does seem to be active, as opposed to where the previous one where you arrived into this plane was inactive. Not to say that that means anything, but it just looks a little bit different. So you can walk over and inspect it, investigate it, or you can just stay and wait for Brennan.
Tito: I'll walk over there.
Tavian: I'm drawn to the light.
DM: Okay, so you head over, and this is large, like the circle on the ground, it's like 15-ish, maybe 20 feet from end to end. It's a very big circle on the ground. Uh, do either of you read, or— yeah, I guess read, uh, Abyssal? Is that in your language options? Okay, so it's in, it's in a foreign language that you don't recognize, but there's words or symbols around this frame. Um, in the corners near where the pillars are, uh, you see that there are small altars, uh, with like a bowl.
Guntrah: I read Abyssal.
DM: You read Abyssal?
Tavian: I do.
Tito: Really?
Tito: Okay, he had Elemental and you have—
DM: he had Celestial.
Tito: Or Celestial.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Uh, okay, well, that would have been good to know a long time ago when you were hearing those creatures talk.
Guntrah: I'm sorry, I just never looked at it.
DM: Uh, okay, you read it.
Tito: But do you understand it as well?
Guntrah: Languages?
DM: Yeah, if it's on your languages, you can read it, speak it, and understand it. It's an orc thing. It's an orc thing? That's a surprising orc thing.
Guntrah: Well, I'm not half orc, I'm full orc.
DM: I don't think orcs are considered Abyssal. It says quotes orc.
Guntrah: Do they?
DM: I think you chose it. I think as being an orc, you get to choose 2 languages.
Guntrah: Usually it tells you, yeah, but I picked Common and Abyssal.
DM: So yeah, it falls under the orc category, but it's not traditionally an orc language.
Guntrah: I read it.
DM: Okay, um, uh, yeah, roll, uh, roll intelligence, I guess.
Tavian: Yeah, history check.
DM: History is a good one if you want to use history.
Tavian: I'm actually proficient in history. It's my one good intelligent roll.
DM: I get a +1, but proficient.
Tito: I got a +1.
DM: Um, yeah, sure. Make an arcana check.
Guntrah: Uh, 24.
DM: 24. Uh, so you can tell that you've, you've had some small amount of experience at the Academy with teleportation circles, and this is a version of that. Uh, in the Abyssal, it's not, it's not actually words. Um, it's more like a, like a codex, like the characters from the Abyssal language inscribed in. So like, uh, The pyramid, kind of. Yeah, um, it's in this codex. It, it feels— you're getting the, the teleportation circle vibe, but you know that this is not a teleportation circle. This is something different. Um, and I think you can kind of assume that it feels like the way that, that the way that, uh, the design is outlined, it's almost kind of square inside the circle where it's kind of almost pointing to these ritualistic offers— uh, sorry, bowls or whatever they are— um, that they're the key to unlocking this circle, which is related to teleportation in some capacity. But you don't exactly know how it works, but you're close. Um, and, uh, yeah, so then at that moment, Bren, uh, kind of gives up on what he's doing over at the workbench and he starts walking back over to the teleportation circle where you guys are. Uh, he says, uh, okay, um, I think we've got everything we need here. Um, I'm gonna, uh, let's, let's, let's go.
Tito: Um, did you find out how this works?
DM: Let's go back, uh, to Morvek and, and let him know.
Tito: I gotta get out of here to figure out how this works.
Tito: I can—
Tito: I'm really persuasive. I can ask this guy how it works.
DM: I'm gonna make an intelligence check for, uh, Run, see if he understands how it works.
Tito: 6.
DM: No, it's not gonna do it. Um, so he, he's, uh—
Tavian: Maybe I, uh, pull out Witness and I say, if now there was a time to help me, please help me. And it transfers its 17 Intelligence to me.
DM: Oh, does it actually go to you, or, or is it just—
Tavian: He, he, he uses it. Okay, like I can use his 17 score in place of my own. This is the only moments where the blade reliably speaks.
Tito: So we can see if we understand it. You want history or arcana, right?
DM: Um, I thought you already rolled arcana.
Tito: I haven't rolled yet.
DM: Oh, I thought you did. Okay, you can do an arcana check.
Tito: I mean, they're both +5s. Yeah.
Tavian: And yeah, you can try history because that's my best.
Silas: Yeah, or just these 2.
DM: Um, you, you can see it, so you can roll arcana as well just to see if you understand I don't know how it works.
Tito: I don't.
Silas: I have a +9.
Tavian: I got a 12.
DM: Oh, I got a natural 20.
Silas: 29.
DM: So yeah, so you, uh, you know, you're a burgeoning wizard and you've already tried to cast Plane Shift once. And from reading that spell scroll, you, you sense familiarity from the, the symbols and the text that was on that scroll is very similar to what's in this circle, and it You feel absolute confidence that this is a source of plane shifting. Um, with a nat 20, I think you also realize that it's incomplete, that there's— there needs to be a trigger, an activation trigger. Um, and I would say even with a nat 20, you probably— you probably, similar to him, you probably know that the bowls that are in the corners of this Can be used to activate it, possibly. But it also could just be that this is an enhanced or funneled source of arcane magic to basically superpower a Plane Shift to work, as opposed to where maybe it's not a— this isn't a veil, a thin veil. This is a spot where Plane Shifting should work, but this circle is making it work.
Tito: Mm-hmm.
DM: So you kind of have all of those thoughts.
Guntrah: Okay.
DM: Um, but yeah, so, uh, so Brenn is in the center, or is in the circle with you guys. Uh, he's, he's trying to figure out how this thing works. You figure it out, or you think you figure it out. You can— you're still invisible, and you're invisible, and you're watching this guy behind you.
Tito: Did you follow us over? Does he know that Renz doesn't know how that—
DM: He, he knows—
Tavian: he's—
Tito: he—
DM: I would say he doesn't think that you guys have figured it out based on your expressions and your communication, but he thinks he knows how it works.
Tito: Okay, I sent in the group chat what I'm scaling on my head right now.
DM: Oh, you did?
Tito: I rolled a 3, so that's funny.
Silas: It's just like, that's—
DM: yeah, that's basically it. Um, yeah, so Do you want to do something about it, or you want to just stay invisible? Oh wait, yeah, because they—
Guntrah: You're invisible though. You can— could you— could he possibly move the right components?
DM: He can try to figure it out. Like, he can try to do something with his components.
Guntrah: Okay, obviously stealth.
Silas: And so, okay, well, I'll make— I'll make some kind of an attempt to Do something. It's hard to know what I can do because it's like I don't—
DM: Right, right. Um, I— yeah, I'll, I'll kind of guide you in that direction. So you were familiar with this, the, the spell, the scroll. You know that the tuning fork is essentially the directionality of the spell, so you know that that's got to be involved somehow. Otherwise, where is it going to take you, right? Um, and You know that there are enough components to put in the 4 bowls. Uh, I don't know what they are offhand, but, you know, some sort of powder and some— maybe, you know, and you probably have those, but you don't have the tuning fork. Bren has the tuning fork.
Silas: Okay, so I kind of— I kind of whispered to him, hey, can I have the tuning fork? The steel one that you used to get here.
Tavian: Um, does he jump because he doesn't see him?
DM: Yeah, so first make a stealth check for me to see how loud you were.
Guntrah: You're stealth— I mean, you're invisible, so roll with advantage.
Silas: Oh, with advantage. Okay, 12.
Guntrah: Okay, Flash's genius, maybe 17.
DM: Okay, so does that take you out of invisibility?
Tavian: I don't think so.
DM: It's just a feature. It's not a spell. Okay, how does it work though? Do you have to talk to him to do it? Like, encourage him?
Guntrah: When you or another creature you can see within 30 feet of you make a ability check or saving throw, you can use reaction at a +5 roll. You can use this 5 times a day.
DM: But there has to be a way for it to get from you to him, and I think it has to be audible, similar to like Bardic Inspiration. There has to be some way to transfer that flash of genius that you have to him. Sure, maybe it's Yeah, I, I would say probably a whisper would, would suffice for a Flash of Genius.
Guntrah: One reaction.
Tavian: It says Flash of Genius does not break invisibility under the 2014 5e rules. It's a class feature. It's a feature.
DM: It's a feature. All right, sure, it doesn't break your invisibility. You somehow magically make him better at what he's doing.
Guntrah: Maybe do what I do is I make I'm invisible and I take his head and I move it closer to his ear.
DM: Okay, yeah, so, so what does that put you at if you had 5?
Silas: 17.
DM: 17, okay. Let me see. Okay, 6 and a 7, so not good. Okay, you quietly tell Bren, hey, can I have that tailing fork? Um, he reaches into his bag and he pulls it out, but he's hesitating a lot, like he's trying to decide, because he can't even see you, first of all. Uh, he has to trust that you're still you. Um, and he says, did you figure out how this works?
Silas: I'm pretty sure I did.
Tito: Okay.
DM: I think I've resigned to my fate.
Tito: Here you go.
DM: He gives you the tuning fork.
Silas: Okay, and then I, I kind of— I'm still—
DM: And then he's just— Bren is just going to start walking back towards the stairs. So you can stay with an invisible Sideways.
Tavian: No, he's there.
DM: Well, you, you probably heard it. You were right next to him.
Tavian: Okay.
DM: And you saw the hang— the tuning fork get handed off and disappear. You saw him take the— take it out of his bag and hand it— and when, as soon as he handed it off, it just went Disappeared when he collected it. So you have a pretty— well, I don't know, maybe not. I know, maybe I'm aloof. Yeah, maybe your character wouldn't notice, but you definitely noticed that.
Tavian: Sounds like a perception roll.
DM: Yeah, that's a good point. You can make a perception check. Um, you noticed that Vren was whispering, presumably to Silas, takes the tuning fork out of his bag and gives it, and then the tuning fork disappears. So you can assume that he gave it to Silas. Uh, so you just—
Tavian: yeah, you rolled a 3.
Guntrah: I don't know. Yeah.
Tavian: Well, I just see him walking away, so I probably follow him because that's what I've been doing.
DM: So you follow Vren back towards the stairs.
Tito: You're—
DM: are you gonna go with, uh, I don't know if you heard me when you walked in, after Vren gave Silas the tuning fork, he started to leave towards the exit, started to go back towards the stairs.
Tito: Is there any explanation?
DM: Uh, he did not say anything. He told you earlier, I think we've got what we need, we'll go let Morvec know that.
Tavian: Yeah, I completely missed Silas passing the Okay, but I saw him.
Tito: I guess I'm following, uh, yeah, I'm following them too. I mean, I don't really know what's going on.
DM: So you guys had— you, you guys both followed Wren back towards the stairs. You've got the tuning fork, you pretty much have it figured out, you know what you need to do. You also know that in order for the spell to do what you want, you need to all be touching each other's hands, or Something, something.
Silas: Okay, well, I'm invisible. As soon as I see them start to move, I, I don't know, how close are they to me?
DM: They're, well, they're walking away. You could say 5 to 10 feet.
Silas: Okay, well then I touched one of them. Whoever's closest. I don't know which one's closest.
Tavian: He's probably behind.
DM: He's probably in the back. Yeah, he probably followed right away. He probably trailed behind.
Silas: So I touch him real quick, like, like I grab him.
DM: Okay, grab his arm.
Silas: Yeah, like, hold on.
Tito: I recognize the hand.
Silas: Then I go give a little slap in the face. Then I, uh—
Tavian: So if you get grabbed, do you say anything, or—
Tito: Yeah, I'll turn around back. Just one second, just one second, guys.
Tavian: We're ahead of you.
DM: Yeah, I turn back to you guys. I say, oh, just one second, just one second. And then that's all.
Tavian: I stop and turn around.
Tito: Yeah.
Tito: Okay.
Tito: Um, I just turn around, just idle.
Tito: Okay.
DM: Um, for the first time you guys notice that the back of this room, uh, it's, it's pretty poorly lit in the back. Uh, there is a skull on the wall, and you realize that the wall isn't solid, it's actually, uh, like a grate, and it's completely pitch black on the other side. And you hear a low guttural snarl coming from the other side of it. Uh, and to both of the, uh, humans that are in the room with you, they kind of chuckle softly to themselves, but it doesn't sound human. It sounds kind of a little bit maniacal. They're being humored by something.
Tito: The other 2 guys you said chuckled?
DM: Yeah, they kind of just chuckle to themselves. They say— and the one that's kind of furthest back to that wall He says, uh, I think you should probably leave now.
Tito: I'll ask why.
DM: Uh, you're— and you're visible?
Tito: Yes. He says, I'll say, why?
DM: You're not supposed to be here.
Tavian: I say, but we're helping Dren.
DM: No, you're not.
Guntrah: How? So based on his knowing of how to do the circle, right? What's the time lapse for that?
DM: Of how much time's lapsed so far? How much time lapse would take him to do the, the, uh, the casting is, is essentially instant to do the spell, but it's the preparing of the 4 bowls is what he's asking.
Guntrah: How quickly could he prepare them?
DM: Um, 30 seconds.
Tito: I'll say— I'll, I'll just say— I'll say, Silas, get it going.
Silas: So, so yeah, once— basically once I grabbed his arm and He's stopping him. I'm already starting to like—
DM: You're already reaching in, pulling out pockets of things?
Silas: Yes.
DM: Okay.
Silas: And I'm trying to kind of go around and put the stuff in the bowls, uh, quickly because—
Guntrah: And as he does that, I go, fuck this. 2 bolts into the guy.
DM: Uh, you shoot at the one that was near the stairs.
Tito: Yes.
DM: At the moment you do that, the, the one that was kind of mocking you, he is rushing to attack you.
Guntrah: Not by the stairs, the guy that was in the back. The guy that spotted me.
DM: Oh yeah, the one that was by the stairs is the one that spotted you. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. The one that's in the back of the room is furthest from you. He's the one that was talking and mocking.
Guntrah: Okay, all right, so I'll do—
DM: So we'll resolve both of those things. You can go first.
Guntrah: Uh, he saw me, so is it 1 die or 2 die?
DM: He, he sees you like as if you were not even invisible.
Guntrah: It's gonna be a 16 to hit.
DM: Uh, it does not hit.
Guntrah: Okay, it's gonna be much higher.
DM: Oh, I'm sorry, 16 does hit. Needed to beat it.
Guntrah: Okay.
Tito: Um, and how far away is he from us? How far away is Gun from us?
Guntrah: Uh, I'm near the circle.
Tavian: We're pretty close.
DM: He's only like 15 feet away from you guys.
Silas: Okay, then how far is the guy in the back on the other one?
DM: Um, about 20-ish, 25 feet away maybe.
Guntrah: Okay, that's gonna be, um, 11 damage plus your 2d6.
Tito: I'm tapped for like big spell, like I have 3rd-level spells, but I used all my—
Guntrah: I'll do an Arcane Jolt for the same thing.
DM: I just realized I This is one of the maps I printed. I printed a few just in case. I didn't know where, if anything, was gonna happen. So 8 extra damage to him, so 19 total.
Guntrah: 19 total.
DM: Here it is. This is the room you're in.
Tavian: Can we get the light brightened up a little bit?
DM: Yeah, sorry, it's really dark. Bright as it goes, brother.
Tavian: Oh, is it?
Guntrah: It's max.
Tavian: Oh, okay.
Tito: Nice.
DM: Uh, how much total damage did you do? What types? 19, all magical. 19 piercing magical?
Guntrah: Everything's magical.
DM: Got it.
Guntrah: And then I'll have a second attack to the side. 29.
DM: I think I have miniatures for this.
Tavian: What is it?
DM: You will see.
Tavian: Oh, I was gonna say I might have it too.
Guntrah: Max damage. Yeah, max damage on that says 16 magical.
DM: Oh, I know it's not in here.
Tavian: 35.
Guntrah: 35.
Tito: 35 on 2 shots.
Guntrah: Uh, I'll wait for him.
DM: Yeah, 35.
Tavian: 19 and 16.
DM: Oh, oops, I did them separate. 16, second one.
Guntrah: Uh, and then as a free action—
DM: I have too many to fit in that case now, so I have to start bringing multiple things.
Guntrah: As a free action, can I, uh, yell something?
DM: Uh, you can, but it's not gonna change what happens next.
Guntrah: Well, I know, but I just go, Ollie, with me!
DM: Okay, isn't that already with you? Oh, he's upstairs, right? No, he's upstairs.
Guntrah: He's just up the top of the stairs. So I'm like, Ollie, with me!
DM: Probably gets advantage on initiative then.
Guntrah: Well, his initiative is my initiative.
Tavian: Oh, okay, gotcha.
Guntrah: Doesn't matter what happens next. Don't railroad us, Derek.
Tito: What did I do?
Guntrah: I said it doesn't matter what happens next.
Tito: Don't railroad us.
DM: No, what I mean is the other, the other guy's gonna attack I'm neutral. So when you shot him, he transformed. He's a type of monster called an oni.
Guntrah: Oh, I know onis. Okay. You do know onis? Yes.
DM: He's an oni.
Guntrah: An oni, homie. Dang.
DM: Which is a Japanese type of, uh, shape-shifting demon. Oh, that's badass. Yeah, uh, okay, so this Oni transforms.
Guntrah: We need more figures.
DM: Say what?
Guntrah: I like these figures.
DM: Oh yeah, we need all the other ones.
Guntrah: Russ, you wanna put yours out there?
Tito: Yeah, here if you want. Oh yeah, I'm sorry, I'll drink all this.
Guntrah: I think you can if you want to.
Tito: I mean, I could. They're delicious. I got them because it was so hot out.
DM: Yeah, which ones do we need? We've got Tavian and Sliver.
Tito: Yeah, they're so good.
Silas: What is it?
Tito: They'll just look at you funny when you buy them.
Silas: Yeah, what are they?
Tito: Bud Light ones. Oh yeah, I mean, it tastes—
DM: uh, I'm gonna temporarily just say that is Silas just because it looks like a wizard a little bit. And I need an orc figure again.
Guntrah: Orc and half-orc.
DM: I got the other one. What do you got? Because it's a wizard. Oh yeah, check the orcs.
Silas: He's got an orc.
Tito: He knows where they're at too.
DM: I got 5 orcs. All right, I got an orc for— 2 orcs for Gun. No, I, I got a wizard out there for Silas.
Tito: Oh, okay.
DM: Oh, but I didn't get one for Wren though. Okay, that'll be Wren.
Guntrah: 2 orcs.
DM: In fact, actually, that makes sense because I think he's even a drow, isn't he? Looks like a drow wizard. It'll be Wren.
Tito: Oh, this is Wren. Oh yeah, we need 2 orcs.
DM: Yeah, get out 2 orcs, one wizardy if you can, and one, uh—
Tito: So Wrenn is—
Tito: What do you—
DM: what does an artificer wear?
Guntrah: Armor.
DM: Oh, you have scale mail, right?
Guntrah: Yeah, plus like gadgets and gizmos.
Tavian: This is an orc, uh, mauler.
Guntrah: That could be me, it's fine.
DM: Yeah, you're just gonna have to take what you get.
Guntrah: Here, go with me.
DM: I forget, did you order a figure or no?
Guntrah: If we survive a couple rounds, yeah.
Tito: Where do you want to be?
Guntrah: I, I would be—
DM: You walked in and you walked over. Uh, where Russ is, like short. So, all right, so, uh, Miles is over here. I would say maybe you got a little bit closer, maybe right there.
Tavian: Um, this could be your round contraption.
DM: Let's see, you're gonna be over here.
Tavian: It's the closest thing we got.
DM: You're in the, uh, you're in the process.
Guntrah: Where's the stairs?
Silas: Up here.
DM: Which one's you, Wren?
Tito: This is Wren.
DM: That's Bren, yeah, which he was heading over to the stairs. Yeah, the robot.
Tito: And I told them—
DM: Nice.
Tito: I turn— I was turning to them and telling them to come back. Tavian, you were—
DM: yeah, you were on your way back. We'll say you were walking back here. And who's this?
Silas: It's me.
DM: That's you. You're in the middle of doing component stuff, so maybe you're at that point.
Tito: So he's behind me.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Uh, let me make sure I got these guys in the right spots.
Guntrah: How tall is the room?
DM: Uh, it's like 15-ish feet. Yeah, we'll say this map's really not scaled very well, apparently.
Guntrah: Is that way?
DM: Yeah, this is the one you shot right here. So yeah, if that's you, that's the one you shot.
Guntrah: Okay.
Silas: All right.
DM: That's resolved. Next thing that happens is this one transforms and we'll say rushes over at Silas, uh, he is going to— oh, the other thing, these characters don't show it, but, um, they have— they, um, pick up along their workshops, they have these long pole weapons called glaives. They both pick up their glaives. Uh, the one that you shot grabs his, and then the one that's rushing Silas grabbed his and is running at him. Uh, he is going to make weapon attacks with that.
Guntrah: Is that a prepared action?
Tito: Yes.
DM: Oh, that's why I'm in the wrong— I don't have initiatives or anything yet. Okay, hold on a second.
Tavian: Oh, I didn't roll initiative.
Guntrah: No, we're doing prepared actions.
Tavian: Oh yeah.
Guntrah: Shot that man twice, son of a bitch.
DM: For 30, I had a token for Ollie. I forgot about that.
Tito: 35. Damn, son.
Tavian: Hell yeah.
Silas: Which one did you shoot twice?
Guntrah: Yeah, the backside.
Silas: Oh, that bad.
Tavian: And there's a beast, I think, back here.
DM: Yeah, something's caged.
Guntrah: Yeah, they went for an ass wave, right?
Silas: Opening that up.
DM: And Ollie is tiny.
Tavian: Is Ollie tiny or small?
Guntrah: Um, I think BBEG.
DM: Yeah, okay, that's fine. I got him on my map as well so I can keep track.
Silas: And I'm still invisible, right?
DM: If you're—
Tito: well, he can see you.
DM: It doesn't matter. They can see him. They have True Sight. They can see literally everything.
Guntrah: Okay, medium construct.
DM: Okay, it's pretty big.
Tito: He's a big boy.
Tavian: Yeah, it's all the extremities.
Guntrah: Yeah, when he—
DM: oh, you said, um, Ollie goes with you in the initiative order, so I'm not gonna worry about his yet.
Tito: Okay.
Tito: Are we rolling initiative?
DM: We'll need to, uh, and I need to add Vren as well.
Tito: Prepare roll.
Tavian: It's -2, boy.
Guntrah: +1.
DM: No, it was actually— it was like an explosive.
Tito: Yeah.
Guntrah: Um, I don't even have a bonus.
Tito: Oh yeah. Oh yeah.
Guntrah: Oh, there it is.
DM: Okay, so probably function.
Tito: There we go.
DM: Okay, and I need initiative rolls from him.
Tavian: Ah, there we go. Wow, it says sometimes a DM might have combatants use their initiative score instead, which is just 10 plus your dex modifier. So mine would by default always be 8.
Guntrah: Yeah, we've always rolled it.
Tavian: Yeah, right, rolling's better.
Tito: Oh yeah.
DM: Okay, so what did you guys get? We'll start with Tavian.
Guntrah: Yeah, roll.
Tavian: You got a 9.
DM: Plus or minus anything?
Tavian: 11 minus 2, 9.
DM: All right, uh, let me roll for Wrenn. It's 15 total.
Guntrah: I got a 15.
DM: You got a 15 as well? All right, what'd you get?
Tito: I'm a 14.
DM: Okay, and then, uh, Silas, what'd you get?
Silas: Uh, 19.
Tito: Nice.
DM: All right, and then, okay, so before we actually start the initiative, the, uh, oni up there is going to rush attack with his glaive, and I apologize, he crit on his very first attack.
Tito: Good god.
Tito: Uh, okay, so you mirror the map on your own?
DM: Like, yeah, I pull it up. So yeah, like, I, I'm— I don't have them positioned properly. I just want to have all All the data. That's all.
Tavian: Gotcha.
Guntrah: Uh, so get a shot doing something too.
DM: Uh, I'm still— I'm resolving the very first one. This guy rush attacking Silas. Oh yeah, he crits with his glaive.
Tavian: Did you reaction or anything, or did it matter?
DM: Uh, you can't really stop it. You can't shield it, if that's what you're asking.
Tito: Oh, gotcha.
DM: Um, it's good. It's only gonna do 22. You got very lucky on the damage rolls. Just 22?
Tito: Yeah.
Tito: You got more HP than I do.
DM: And then that was his first attack. His second attack—
Tito: Yeah, I do.
Silas: That's why I always beat you when we spar each other.
Tito: You don't always beat me.
DM: 26, 20. 13 plus 7, uh, 20. Can you shield to block the 20, or is that gonna hit?
Tito: No, you're—
Tito: you're—
Tito: she's 11.
Silas: Yeah, I know.
DM: So that's gonna hit anyway.
Tavian: Okay.
DM: All right, other glaive damage. Plus you're not supposed to be asking us that. You're right, you're right.
Tito: Too much tabletop going on.
DM: They're gonna, uh— That's 12 more from the second. Kill us this next session. Who cares or not? Well, I already broke it twice then because I told him when he rolled a 16 to hit, it was needed to beat it.
Tito: So I know they fucking hated on us last time. Yeah, table talking.
DM: What were the names? Sarah and, uh, if we were to post this, Malcolm Roasted. It's Malcolm, something like that.
Tito: People will hate us.
Silas: Oh yeah.
DM: Uh, anyway, so yeah, so he total does 34 damage to you. Uh, now we resolve the initiative order. And I think you're up first. Yes, Silas goes first.
Tito: Can he complete the spell?
DM: No, he can't complete the spell yet.
Tito: No, we'll have to be touching.
DM: He has to finish all of the things he's doing. I would say each, uh, each place that he goes, he needs to use either an action or a bonus action to perform the putting of the components.
Silas: What if I—
Tavian: did he complete the first one?
DM: Yeah, we'll say that one's done.
Silas: So what if I do— what if I do Mage Hand and then can I do 2 things at once? Like pour one in my hand, then use Mage Hand to pour the other one in?
Tito: What would Silas do though if you just got whacked with a mace twice? Would you still be intent on completing the task?
DM: I would say you could do— you could move and do one, and with your action move and do the other with your bonus action, but that would be the limit. I wouldn't say you could do any more than that on that turn.
Guntrah: You'd be taking a hit though.
DM: And you would take a hit running from him. Um, and then the turn after that, you would be able to run, do your bonus action, and cast the spell. But you don't want to cast the spell unless you're in physical contact with everybody who's going, so you all need to be within 5 feet of each other when the spell gets cast. Okay, for it— for you all to go, otherwise someone's getting left behind.
Tavian: All right, can you Misty Step away from danger?
Tito: You can Misty Step away.
Silas: Yeah, I could do that.
Tito: You can use that as a bonus action, and then you can still use, um, a cantrip if you've got a decent cantrip to attack. But I would Misty Step away first.
Silas: Okay, so I'll do that. I'll— yeah, I'll do the Misty Step.
Tito: Should just be— see his second place. There it is.
Silas: Okay, so I do the Misty Step away from him, probably like over here or something. So I already did that one, right? You said—
Tito: Yep.
Silas: Okay, I just want to get as far away from him as I can. Um, and then I can do— yeah, I can do, uh, is it— I can do a cantrip still, is that right?
Tito: Yes, uh, right.
DM: Yeah, yeah, if you Misty Step, 2nd-level spell, you can still do a cantrip.
Silas: Okay, I will do—
Tito: you just can't do 2 spells at once.
Silas: Well, can I use— can I use the cantrip to do the Mage Hand and pour stuff in the other one so then there's 2 of them done? Because this one would be done and then that one would be done.
Tito: Sure.
DM: Yeah, let's mark them, the ones that are done.
Tito: I marked this one.
DM: Oh, I'll use triangles. Okay, that— all right, wait, not that one.
Guntrah: Right?
DM: This one and this one, right?
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Those 2 are done?
Tavian: First one.
Tito: Yep.
Tavian: Okay.
Silas: And then this one. Is this one done since I was—
Tavian: No.
Silas: Oh, okay.
Tavian: You have to use an action.
Silas: Oh, okay.
Tavian: But now you're done unless you want to move, maybe, but I wouldn't necessarily.
Silas: No, I'll, I'll stay there. So that should be my turn, right?
Tito: Sure.
Guntrah: Yep.
DM: Uh, okay, sorry, I'm trying to juggle a lot of things here. What is Bren's message?
Silas: I thought there was something outside. It was the cat in the reflection. I was like, whoa, there's a cat out there.
DM: Uh, okay, and then it's Bren's turn next, actually. Um, he stops, he turns around. You see him make a snap judgment, um, and he says, uh, it's like Well, shit, uh, if I'm gonna die, I might as well do what I can to help you guys. And he starts— let's see what spells.
Tavian: I nod at him. It means a lot to me that he chose to do that. It means a lot.
DM: Well, and you can see resignation in his face because he is in worlds of trouble. He can't, he can't get out of this pickle anymore.
Tavian: I say, come with us.
DM: All of his bridges are burned. He can't do anything. Uh, so he is going to Casts. Well, he's already burned all of his high-level spells, so he's getting down to the lower ones.
Tito: Um, he does—
DM: he's not an offensive player, really. Uh, he's gonna run over here and he's gonna Thunderwave this one into the corner at a higher level.
Guntrah: Okay.
DM: It's a Con save. Let's see what his Con save is. Okay, it does— it fails. Okay, so he's going to take some damage.
Tito: 6d8.
DM: And I only have 5 of them. So let's roll one extra. 10, 24, 26, plus 22, or 28 total thunder damage. And this guy is pushed back a little bit, uh, and then he's gonna step back behind this corner here. What'd I say, 28?
Silas: Isn't it— is there— is one round like one minute? Like if I have something that happens in 10 minutes—
DM: 6 seconds is a round.
Silas: Oh, so 10 minutes is like a long time. A long time.
DM: Like impossibly long in combat.
Tavian: It's 100 rounds.
DM: Well, okay, so that one— this one's already a little bit, a little bit busted up. Um, and that's it for Wrenn's turn. It is Gun, it is you and your buddy's turn next.
Guntrah: Okay, so my buddy is gonna come down.
Tavian: It's really hard to see the squares.
Guntrah: Mostly cam.
DM: Yeah, it's a little dark to see the squares.
Tito: Should the parameters say dark?
DM: 15, 20, 25.
Tavian: 5e rules say moving through an ally is possible, but it's actually difficult terrain.
DM: That makes sense. Yeah, yeah, it makes sense.
Guntrah: It's got, um, I think 30 feet of movement normally.
Tavian: No, I think it could actually squeeze by though.
Guntrah: 30?
Tavian: He moved 20.
Tito: 20.
Guntrah: Um, it's gonna move, uh, so the stairs themselves were about 20 feet long.
Tavian: Oh, sure.
DM: To get to the bottom from the top.
Guntrah: Okay, can he attempt to—
DM: Yeah, so I, I would say he did— to get to where he's at now would have been 15-ish.
Guntrah: What about a jump and a climb over the stairs to the next big guy?
DM: Oh yeah, the map doesn't represent it, but this is a wall. You can't go through that.
Guntrah: Oh, okay.
DM: He'd have to go around.
Guntrah: Let's try to get around.
Tavian: So 5, 10, 15, or, uh, that's, that's, that's 30.
DM: Yeah, that's my 30. Actually, I would say, let's see, it was 15 to get here, so it would be 30 to get here.
Tavian: Or you can move through them with difficult terrain.
DM: Yep, you're right, you can move through. That's good.
Guntrah: Is he within 5 feet or no?
Tito: No.
Guntrah: Okay.
DM: Uh, the scale is, is not great. That's— they're supposed to be more than 5 feet. Between them.
Guntrah: That's his move. Mine, can I get to the guy that's close to the circle with movement?
Tavian: This guy right here?
Silas: Yeah.
Tito: Yeah.
Tito: 5, 10, 15, 20.
Tavian: You could get 20 right there, I think.
DM: I think it's right there.
Tito: Yeah.
Tavian: Do you wanna be like right here?
Guntrah: Yeah, I wanna get right there.
Tito: Yeah.
Tavian: 5, 10, 15, 20.
Guntrah: And then, um, can I do some greataxe attacks?
DM: Sure. Greataxe attacks. Give me some swings.
Guntrah: Um, that is only a 14.
Silas: Oh, that cuts his head off.
Guntrah: That's much higher. That's, uh, 23.
DM: Uh, that is a hit.
Guntrah: Okay. That is a d20.
Tito: 23.
Guntrah: That is, um, 14 plus— I think I believe used my last feature for that, which is going to be— oh nope, I still have plenty of those. 14 plus 2d6. The Archangel. Um, 14 plus 9, so 23.
DM: Okay, all right, and that's it for you.
Guntrah: That is it.
DM: All right, uh, down the list. Uh, Tito, what are you gonna do?
Silas: Tito's gonna sing and dance.
Tavian: This isn't the Jackson 5.
Tito: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
DM: Yeah, Tito Jackson.
Tito: Chromatic Orb right here.
Silas: Chromatic Orb.
DM: The, the one closest to you?
Tito: Yep. Okay, it's gonna be cold damage, which I'm choosing.
DM: Got it.
Tito: 19.
DM: Plus or minus anything?
Tito: Well, it's 11 plus 8.
DM: That's a hit.
Tito: So, and that is going to be 5d8 right here. And that person is not 30 feet.
DM: No, they're too far apart.
Tito: 13, 15, 16, 20 cold damage.
Tito: Okay.
DM: Um, and as you do that, you notice it was a little bit less effective than you thought it would be.
Silas: Oh, damn it.
Tito: It's a 3rd-level slot. And then I am going to, um, use a 2nd-level spell slot as a No Use to regain a Bardic Inspiration.
DM: As a bonus action, you can do that.
Tito: It doesn't cost any action or anything to As a bonus action, I have to cast— to, um, to cast Bardic Inspiration, right?
DM: But doing the conversion doesn't cost anything.
Tito: Doing the conversion does not cost anything. Okay, so I'm going to mark a 2nd-level spell slot and give, um, Tavian Bardic Inspiration.
DM: Okay, nice.
Tito: That is 1d10.
Tito: You can do it, you can do it.
DM: Do you do a little ditty on your pan flute?
Tito: Yeah, well, I'm actually steering away from the—
Tavian: What is that, a 1d10?
Tito: Because of my acting and things like that, I'm more of a— because I'm the College of Eloquence, I'm more of a story, like a poem, like a performance.
DM: And he eats that shit up, so he thinks everything he does is epic and it's worthy of a poem. Okay, that's it for you?
Tito: That is it for me.
Tavian: All right.
Tito: Uh, yeah, so it's a special. It just says regain Bardic Inspiration. You can expend a spell slot, in parentheses, no action required, to regain 1 expended use of Bardic Inspiration.
Tito: Got it.
Tito: So I can do that every turn, but it just eats my spell slots alive.
Tito: All right, okay.
Tito: Oh, I could have cast that 4th level. God damn it.
Guntrah: Yeah, it was not as effective as you thought, but you can pick—
Silas: know that you can pick what kind of damage, right?
DM: Um, as a bonus action, he is going to go invisible. And then he is going to sneak through here and go after Silas. These are highly intelligent creatures. They know exactly what you're doing and they are going to stop it, which is what they were hired to do.
Guntrah: You're gonna stealth check?
DM: Uh, it's invisible.
Guntrah: So stealth check advantage, right?
Tito: You're right.
DM: Uh, 17 plus—
Tito: I don't know, it's probably gonna be stealthy.
DM: That's a Dexterity, right? Plus 3, so 20.
Guntrah: So the people that he goes through could have opportunity attacks potentially, right?
DM: If they beat the— if they perceive them, yes. So yeah, if you want to try to roll Perception and beat a 20 It would just be Ollie and Bren. He didn't— uh, sorry, just Ollie. He's the only one because he's still in range of these 2. They wouldn't get an attack of opportunity anyway. He's not leaving their combat range, right? So it's just Ollie.
Guntrah: Perception check is wisdom, right?
DM: Uh, yes, it's a wisdom thing.
Tito: Nope.
Guntrah: Oh, rolled the wrong dice. 19.
DM: Uh, I hit 20.
Tito: Sorry.
Silas: Close.
Guntrah: Damn.
DM: I mean, what is Ollie gonna do anyway? Hit him for 1 damage?
Guntrah: No, he hits hard.
DM: Does he really?
Tito: Yeah.
Silas: Uh, okay.
DM: Uh, so let's see, this is gonna be— uh, this one doesn't have a glaive. Sorry, only the other one had a glaive. This one is a little bit more A little bit different. He wields just his claws for attacks, and he has some arcane abilities. He's going to try to do some claw attacks at Silas here.
Tito: Shield him. Don't tell us what you rolled. Don't metagame here.
Tito: Right.
DM: Uh, 1 crit and 1 regular hit.
Tito: Another fucking crit.
Tito: I've rolled a couple d20s actually tonight.
Guntrah: Okay, um, are you doing a saving throw?
Tito: Not yet.
Silas: This would just be a—
Guntrah: just attack roll.
Silas: Shield is just—
Tito: So did you say they both hit?
Silas: It's a reaction, right?
DM: One hit critically.
Tito: If you can, you're obviously— you're not gonna shield the crit, but right, you can if you think it's worth it. You can shield the other if— how many spell slots do you have left for shield?
Silas: I got all this.
Tito: Oh hell yeah, I would shield that shit.
Tavian: How's this one looking?
DM: This is the one that's, uh, like a little wounded, like half dead. Okay, okay.
Tito: Does it hit a 15?
DM: Does a 15 hit?
Silas: No, it's +5, it'd be 16.
DM: It was added up to 19.
Tito: God damn it.
Silas: Okay, I don't shield that.
DM: Uh, okay, so let's see. These are— the claw is not as good.
Guntrah: It's a reaction before you know the All right, yeah, that's why I didn't tell him what to roll. So you gotta take it.
DM: I was kidding, I was kidding. Yeah, he was joking.
Tito: I don't have any more shields left. I only have Shield as a 1st-level spell. I can't even upcast it as a 2nd-level spell.
DM: Man, you have the luckiest dice rolls.
Tito: I only have 14 AC, so—
DM: Okay, so you take 12 slashing and 10 necrotic from the crit.
Silas: So 22.
DM: Yep.
Tito: What do you got? And then that—
DM: this I need to roll for the second.
Silas: We got 16 more left.
DM: Uh, did you say 16? What's 7 plus 5 plus 4?
Tito: 16.
DM: And actually, I forgot to add the other 4, so it would have been 20.
Guntrah: Okay, are you down?
Silas: Well, not exactly.
DM: He has the orc thing that you have.
Guntrah: Oh, you pop up?
Silas: Yeah, so I have 1, right?
Guntrah: Yep, with 1. Nice.
Tito: Well, we don't know what the damage is.
DM: It doesn't matter. A lethal hit, which it was a lethal hit, gets negated by his orcish endurance. He goes back to 1 regardless of the damage.
Tito: Oh well, you didn't roll the damage for the second hit.
DM: I just did. That was what took him down. Oh yeah, that was the—
Guntrah: that's the orc benefit.
Tito: So you hit, so he goes down and then he comes back?
DM: Yeah, so he gets hit with a lethal blow But his orcish blood pumps in his veins.
Tito: He's like, I got this!
DM: So now he has 1 hit point.
Tito: He's staggered.
Guntrah: Yeah, yeah, yep.
DM: Um, okay, and then Tavian, you are up.
Tito: We gotta heal Silas.
Tavian: I turn to look at this beast that just like nearly killed my buddy Silas, and I say, Get the fuck out of here! And I hit him with my Ring of Ram. Oh, all 3 charges maxed out.
DM: Okay, I need— you're gonna have to remind me how all that works.
Tavian: Yeah, so it's got 3 charges. I can use 1, 2, 3 of them. Uh, produces a spectral ram's head and makes an attack roll with a +7 bonus. On a hit, for each charge you spend, the target takes 2d10, so it'll be 6d10, and is pushed 15 feet away.
Tito: Holy fuck.
DM: Yeah, 6d10. Yeah, and then you have to make an attack roll with that.
Tito: I do, yeah.
DM: So that's 3 attack rolls?
Tavian: No, it's just 1.
DM: I mean, it's just 1 superpowered, full-powered one. He's putting all of the ring's power in 1 hit, and you have my Bardic Inspiration, right?
Tavian: Yeah, and that's a 1d10 if I need it?
Tito: Yep. All right, fuck.
Tavian: Wait, so that's 4 plus 7, that's 11, so I need this.
Tito: 10.
Tavian: So, fuck yeah, 21.
DM: 21, that hits.
Tito: Let's go! He feels my—
DM: It's a good thing you gave him that barding. Yeah, yes, otherwise he just rammed the shit out of that wall behind him.
Silas: Oh, I missed.
Tavian: Well, I don't have to move and I can throw this thing 60 feet, right?
DM: Yeah, so you about crumbled the wall, which would have the whole structure coming down.
Tavian: That's 6, 11, 15, 17, 22. 22 force damage and throw him 15 feet.
DM: Force damage, you smash him, he flies all the way under this table over here.
Tavian: Okay, and then does that—
Tito: can't— does that make him invisible?
DM: Wait, oh, when he attacked, it broke his invisibility. Yeah, which I should have rolled the first one with advantage, but I didn't. That's okay.
Tavian: All right, and then I move 5, 10, 15. I want to stand right there with my shield and Witness in hand. Nice.
Tito: Okay.
Guntrah: Yeah.
DM: All right, nice turn. Uh, and then it is this guy's turn over there.
Tito: Hopefully he's not highly intelligent.
DM: No, these things are very smart. They're actually— I think they have similar descendants as orcs, honestly.
Tito: They look like it.
DM: Yeah. Okay, so you get an attack of opportunity against him.
Guntrah: Where's he going?
DM: Up and over.
Guntrah: 15.
DM: Uh, 15 does not hit him, so he's going to push off the ground and literally fly. He has flying speed. Uh, wait, who is he? He's gonna do— he's gonna fly though. Yeah, it's not particularly high. I'm exaggerating its height. He's gonna fly over here.
Guntrah: Would, uh, Satyr Boy get attacked?
DM: Uh, yeah, you can have attack of opportunity as well, whatever weapon you have out. But, uh, I think I have a dagger. It's worth it. Roll it, roll that beautiful bean footage. Hit him with the lute! There is a— I think it's a feat that allows you to use Shocking Grasp as a reaction attack of opportunity.
Tito: Oh, hell no. I don't hit him.
DM: You do not hit him. Okay, you, uh, you're like, ah, just kind of panic stab towards him but miss.
Tito: I might stab—
DM: You rolled a nat 1?
Tito: I stabbed the other way.
DM: Well, that's the best time to get the nat 1 out of the way. Okay, so it flies over, lands next to Silas, um, and Tavian. I guess you're both next to each other, so it lands next to the both of you. Uh, am I keeping my map up to date here? Uh, and this is the one with the glaive. It is going to take a swipe. Oh, I think that's gonna miss. Yeah, that's gonna miss. And then it's gonna swing again. It's another crit.
Tito: What?
Silas: I'm—
DM: look, look at it.
Silas: That says 1.
DM: 2-0. Oh, um, okay, so that's It doesn't matter what the damage is. Yeah, what's that?
Tavian: He's 1 point.
Guntrah: Was it 20 on the first hit or second hit?
DM: Second hit was a nat 20.
Guntrah: That's 2 death saves, right?
DM: No, because he was up.
Tavian: He's got 1 point.
DM: The first hit missed him. I rolled a 3 on the dice.
Tito: Lucky.
DM: Yeah, so that's enough to take you down.
Tito: I want you to roll for it. We're not sure of that.
DM: I mean, I can roll, and if I roll big numbers, I might kill him permanently. No, never mind. His HP is too high for that. Um, but it would have done a substantial amount.
Silas: Oh, so I can only do the thing once?
DM: Yeah, once per day, I think.
Silas: Yeah, once per long rest or whatever.
Tito: Yeah, you're, you're done.
DM: So you're out. Um, and back to the top of the order. Silas. You are— make a death saving throw, please. Need a 10 or higher.
Silas: 14.
DM: One saved.
Tito: Yay!
DM: Uh, Bren's turn. Bren is again realizing his situation. Um, Oh shit, he does not have a lot of abilities here. Um, he is going to cast Haste on himself, and then he is going to—
Tito: He's outta here.
DM: No, he's gonna run. Let's see, he doubles his movement, so Speed, which I think was just 30.
Tavian: Plus 2 AC, uh, he gets an extra action.
DM: Yeah, his movement speed was only 30, so 60. So you can go 5, 10, 15, 20, and he's gonna shove— he's, he's targeting specific components. He's gonna grab some very specific things, use his bonus action to do that. And then that was 20, right? 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 550, 5560. And then he's going to use his action to dash to get over here and start doing the same thing. He's wiping— he's, he's just emptying as many of the components that are in this room as he possibly can. Uh, anybody with decent intelligence would probably be able to figure out he is trying to make it so that nobody else can Plane Shift out of this place in a sooner— uh, like, it's gonna take us some time. for anybody to, to, to use it. He's just trying to slow people down.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Okay, that's his entire turn. He's just doing that. Uh, next in the list is going to be Gun and Ollie.
Guntrah: All right, can Ollie get anywhere?
DM: Oh, he can probably reach this one. 5, 10, 15, 20, 25. To this one.
Guntrah: Okay, and, um, he will do a rend attack.
Tito: It's gonna hit.
Guntrah: It's gonna be a 20. 5.
DM: Let me double-check something.
Guntrah: So 1d8 plus—
Tito: oh, Fresh Druid modifier. So d8 plus 5 plus We're proficient to what, like 3?
DM: Uh, I think your proficiency is 4, isn't it?
Guntrah: So 9?
DM: Yeah, your proficiency bonus is +4.
Guntrah: 9.
DM: Okay, 9 damage from Ollie.
Guntrah: Then it's my turn. Uh, I will move up to the guy.
Tito: Okay.
Guntrah: I don't have heal spells, so I will just attack him.
DM: Same guy? Oh, the other guy.
Tito: Okay.
Guntrah: 18.
Tito: Hit.
Guntrah: Okay, uh, I will do a d20. That's 6 plus 7, so 13, plus I have it still.
DM: And this is magical or non-magical?
Guntrah: Okay, I will do another Arcane Jolt. 16 plus 7, 23.
DM: Um, you said 13 and then you added 7. Oh, 13 plus 13 to 16.
Guntrah: Okay, so 20. Yeah, I'll do another attack. That is a 21.
DM: That is another hit. Okay, and that is another—
Guntrah: this would be a 5 plus 7, so that'd be a 12. Okay, that's what I got.
DM: All right, um, so he's starting to look a little rough. Uh, then it's gonna be Tito, your turn. Clock's ticking. Oh, it's my turn?
Tito: Yeah, sorry.
Tito: Um, I'm going to use another spell slot To regain Bardic Inspiration. I'm going to use that Bardic Inspiration as Unsettling Words, which takes a 1d10 against saving throws for you.
DM: For which one?
Tito: For this one right in front of me.
DM: Okay, so his next saving throw, he loses a d10?
Tito: Correct, which will be— he loses 3. Okay, and then I'm gonna cast Blight.
DM: Which is a CON 16. CON 16, correct. All right, let's just go. So he gets a +3, so -3. It's whatever I roll on the d20. 19.
Tito: Jesus Christ. Well, you still take half damage.
DM: Roll me some damage.
Tito: 8d8. 8, 10, 16, 20, 32. So 16 necrotic damage.
DM: Uh, necrotic, he doesn't take any, or there's no resistance to that. Okay, he takes the damage. Is that it?
Tito: That is it for me.
DM: All right, it is— which one's which? Okay, so it's not the one that you just hit, it's this guy's turn down here at the bottom. Um, he is going to Bonus action invisible again. I'm surprised that's not limited. That's just a bonus action he can do.
Tavian: Yeah, that will—
Tito: uh, okay.
Tavian: Which guy is that? This guy?
DM: This guy, yeah.
Tavian: I just yell, where'd he go?
DM: He's gone!
Tito: And then he is going to—
Silas: Oh, I can't do anything on the ground.
Tito: No. Uh, I don't think he moved that far.
DM: 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30. Wait, what's his movement speed? I don't even know what his movement speed is. 30. But he can also fly.
Silas: I can't see him, but I can see—
DM: So yeah, so instead of moving, he actually just flies over the top then so he can get closer, and he's gonna do a claw swipe at the, uh, the dancing mirthful satyr in the center of the circle.
Silas: He's just actually been Up there dancing like—
DM: That's what it kind of looks like.
Tito: He's like, woohoo!
Tito: Oh, he's gonna claw swipe at me?
Tito: Yes.
DM: Uh, first one—
Silas: Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
DM: You have no idea he's even here, by the way.
Tavian: He's invisible.
Tito: Oh yeah, goddamn it. I don't have a shield anyways.
Guntrah: Oh, okay.
DM: Okay, so he's gonna do a claw swipe at you. I think that's what this one does. Yes, this would look— just claw swipes. Uh, 14, it's gonna be a hit. Try not to say the number. It's a hit.
Tito: I'm telling you what you have to— Okay, yeah, I appreciate that. Uh, so will they.
DM: Uh, so that's gonna do 11 slashing plus 8 necrotic.
Tavian: Wait, I'm gonna do an interception.
DM: What's that?
Tavian: So when a creature you see hits a target other than you within 5 feet of you— so what I'm thinking is I'm seeing him hit him, he's in within 5 feet. Can I mess up his call?
DM: He needs to be within—
Tavian: that's what I was trying to decide. When a creature you see hits a target Other than you within 5 feet of you.
DM: Yeah, he's not within 5 feet of you. You could have done it when—
Tavian: creature—
DM: I see he was being hit though. You were next to him when he— yeah, but he critted. You're right, it wouldn't have made any difference.
Tavian: Yeah, because it's a 1d10 plus 10 for me to like—
DM: that way maybe we should have rolled the dice because it's, it's technically possible you could have been able to block all of it, but it would have been hard.
Tavian: Oh no, sorry, 1d10 plus 4.
DM: So, okay, yeah, max of 14. All right, well, yeah, I think it's— you have to be next to them.
Tavian: That's what I mean.
DM: That's exactly the right thing to do.
Tavian: Yeah, yeah.
Tito: Okay, okay.
DM: So I, I forgot my numbers.
Guntrah: Did you get the damage?
DM: So 11 piercing, um, 7 plus 4, 11 slashing, and then 8 necrotic.
Tito: So 19 total.
DM: That was the first hit, and second one is a hit. You said 14, right?
Tito: Yep.
Tito: Okay. What kind of attacks are these?
DM: Claw slashes. Okay, uh, and then this one— low dice— 6 slashing plus 10 necrotic.
Tito: I'm looking, I'm like 1/3.
DM: Uh, and that's it for him. And then it is Tavian, your turn.
Tavian: All right, so just turn around with the, uh, the guy right in front of me. So this is my plan, I'm gonna hit him with Witness.
Tito: Good witness. Can I get a movement?
Tavian: All right, 14 plus 8, that's it, 22. All right, so I'm definitely going to do a Divine or Smite.
Tito: Yes, absolutely.
Silas: Absolutely.
Guntrah: It's my high, man. It's my high.
Tito: The highest level you got.
Tavian: No, I can't do that.
DM: I don't want to do that.
Guntrah: I'm gonna do a 2nd level I always smite the fuck out of them.
Tito: I would smite the fuck out of them. Yeah, there's nothing more epic.
DM: Your character can spend 1 spell slot higher than 1st level.
Tavian: All right, so I get—
Guntrah: that's what Warlock always did. Got a hit, let's smite the fuck.
Tavian: So 3d8 plus, um, the sword itself. Uh, 10, that's 19 total damage.
DM: So, you know, what kind? Um, so I assume the radiant for the smite and then slash. Oh, you have a magical weapon, so slashing magical.
Tavian: So yeah, slashing magical, um, call it 8, and then 11 radiant.
Tito: Got it.
DM: And then my bonus action I'm going to multiattack though, don't you?
Tito: Oh sure.
Guntrah: Jesus Christ.
DM: Oh sure, we don't want anybody to pull punches.
Guntrah: So dude, fucking Christ.
Tito: No, you gotta roll.
DM: You gotta roll to hit first.
Guntrah: Oh yeah, yeah, all over again.
Tavian: Same, same exact spot.
Guntrah: Okay, why are those motherfuckers—
Tito: Are you gonna use another Smite again?
Tavian: Yeah, I'm gonna Upcast it. Another level 2 spell slot. All right, call it 7 slashing magical plus, um, so 13 radiant.
DM: So what, 7 plus 13?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Okay, so 20.
Tito: Yep.
DM: Uh, okay, that one goes down.
Silas: Sweet.
Tavian: All right, but I'm still doing a bonus action. I'm gonna— it's an inspiring smite.
DM: Sorry, when that guy dies, also when he falls, the, the cage with the skull on it rattles and snarls. The guy is— whatever's back there is banging on it and making a lot of noise, and it's getting very, very agitated from that.
Tavian: So I just so happen to do a passive, uh, knockout of the guy.
DM: I don't know if it's like life type or if it's just consciousness. Uh, we'll see. All right, now I killed that shit.
Guntrah: Come on.
Tavian: Yeah, so I'm doing Inspiring Smite. So after I deal damage to a creature with your Divine Smite feature, you can channel divinity as a bonus action, and within 30 feet I can basically give temp healing points, 2d8 plus 10.
Guntrah: Nice.
Tavian: Divided among the creatures of my choosing within 30.
DM: Can you pick Silas? Yeah, I don't see why not.
Tavian: It is temp.
DM: Oh yeah, temp HP. No, that's not gonna help him. It can't, it can't be temp HP to get him back up. It's gotta be actual HP.
Tito: You need to give it to me too.
Tavian: Yeah.
Tito: All right.
Tavian: I'm just giving them to him.
Guntrah: Are you fucked up? No, I'm fine. I'm in it.
Tavian: So that's 10 plus 10, that's 20 HP.
Tito: Fuck yeah.
DM: 20 temp HP, not actual.
Tavian: 20 temp.
Tito: Yeah. Oh yeah.
Guntrah: You need to sign us up.
Tavian: I know, I can do that next time.
Tito: All right, I gotta capture that Divinity.
Tito: Capture that.
Tito: I had one. I'm running low on spell slots.
DM: Is that it for you? Sorry, I should ask.
Tavian: Oh yeah.
DM: Then it is the surviving oni's turn. Uh, he seems to react poorly to his comrade going down. Uh, he's gonna turn at Gunn.
Tito: Bring it, bitch.
DM: All right, and he's gonna start swinging wildly. Uh, 1 hit and 1 miss.
Guntrah: Can I use a shield?
DM: Wait, a shield or the shield spell?
Guntrah: Shield spell.
DM: Yeah, you can use a shield spell.
Guntrah: Okay, yeah, 23.
DM: It's at 21, so they both miss.
Guntrah: Yeah, you're coming.
DM: All right, um, that is it for him, and it is back to the top. Silas, Death's Saving throw, please.
Silas: Okay, let's go.
Guntrah: Come on, come on, come on.
Silas: Watch this.
Tito: 10.
DM: That's a success. Yeah, that's 2 successes.
Guntrah: Nice.
DM: Um, Wrenn is going to finish trashing—
Guntrah: wait, never mind, you're good.
DM: Okay, Wrenn is going to finish— well, not trashing, gathering up in his satchel all of the necessary components over there, and then he's still hasted 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35. He's gonna empty that one with— he's got both his— he's got 2 actions actually. I forgot he could have done that one last turn with his other action, and he's gonna wipe that one clean. And then he kind of sees what's going on over here, and he's kind of scratching his head, uh, doesn't really want to get involved. He's got, let's see, 5, 15, and then I think that's the limit. That's the end of his movement right there. Um, actually, I'm gonna put him right there, and he, he's figured out what Silas was doing, and he recognizes what he put there, and he's gonna throw a different component in that one. So we'll mark that one as done.
Tavian: Hell yeah.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Okay, that's it for his turn. Uh, it is Gun, Yuanti, and Ollie's turn.
Guntrah: It's my turn?
Tito: Yeah.
Guntrah: Um, Ollie, yeah, can he move closer to the enemy and attack him?
DM: Uh, he should be able to reach him. Yeah, you can just get around the outside. I keep doing it backwards, don't I? Because he's a spider, he should be turning around that way.
Guntrah: 19.
Silas: Unless he's stinging him with his butt.
DM: 19 is a hit.
Tito: Yeah, it's a hit.
DM: Gosh, a second, you gotta like so much shit to scroll through. Uh, d12 plus 4 because that's your proficiency. D8, right? Or not D12, um, I forget your dice damage. D6, D8?
Guntrah: It is a D8.
Silas: D-bag.
Guntrah: So 9 total.
Tito: Yep.
Guntrah: Okay, and then I will attack him twice.
Tavian: Yep.
DM: I like to do multiattack. No, no, me. You are attacking twice.
Tito: Got it.
Guntrah: Um, it's going to be a 19.
DM: That's a hit.
Guntrah: I do 12. Let me show you the right page. That is 9 damage, but if I have it, I will do my last Arcane Bolt.
Tito: Okay.
Tito: Or Jolt.
Tito: Sorry.
Guntrah: So 9 plus, um, 7.
DM: Okay, 16 total.
Guntrah: And then I'll do my other attack.
Tito: Okay.
Guntrah: Which is— he missed. We'll see. Uh, that is only going to be a 15.
DM: Not gonna hit. Okay, that's it. Okay, uh, Tito, you're up.
Tito: Okay, I'm going to use a 2nd-level spell slot to regain Bardic Inspiration, which I'm going to use as Unsettling Words, which is 1d10.
DM: That's for his, uh Saving throw again.
Tito: Yeah, yeah, yeah, you don't know.
DM: I didn't say which spell. So 7 minus 7 to his next saving throw.
Tito: Okay, and then I'm going to cast another 4th level Blight.
DM: Okay, uh, Constitution, right? Yep, 16 minus 7, uh, probably gonna fail. Yes, fail.
Tito: Okay, so that is 8d8 necrotic.
Silas: There you go.
Tito: 3, 5, 9, 15. 9, 6, so 15 is a 30 necrotic damage.
Tito: 30.
DM: Okay, and that one goes down. He's dead.
Tito: Yes!
DM: And when that one goes down, the thing that's behind that grate smashes and crashes into it even harder than before. before. I'm gonna roll a d6, and that's how many rounds you have till it busts open.
Tito: 1.
Guntrah: So spell's been cast, right?
DM: No, these 3 have— are full of components. And so in 1 round—
Guntrah: This 4th one is, right?
DM: No, no, this one's not ready yet. So in 1 round, he, he's gonna say, get him up quick! He's gonna run over, plop it in there, and then he's gonna cast the spell once everybody's touching. And he has no choice but to go with you. He didn't want to, but he has no choice. And he doesn't know what's left over here. There might be some more components he doesn't know about over there.
Guntrah: So, all right, get him up, Tavian.
Tavian: Is it my turn?
DM: Uh, we're out of initiative order. Everybody has one at one turn to do something.
Tavian: Oh, I see.
Guntrah: Just give me at least 1 HP. Let's go. You believe on hands?
Tito: Do you have something? Because I can get him.
Guntrah: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm hands still.
Tavian: Yeah, I gotta see one way on hand.
DM: This is probably the most important roll of the game because if he fails to cast this Plane Shift spell—
Guntrah: who, uh, is he doing it?
DM: Wrenn is casting it while you guys pick him up.
Guntrah: He—
DM: his intention was to leave and let you guys—
Tito: he has 2 actions, so he's using an action to ready this, then he's using his second action to Yes, you've cast Cure Wounds.
Tavian: No, just a Lay on Hands.
Tito: Or Lay on Hands. That's your action.
DM: We both have actions.
Silas: Wait, how much should I get?
Guntrah: 1.
DM: So mathematically, he needs to get a 5 or above to successfully cast Plane Shift. If he fails, that thing comes out there, and I can't make any promises. 18. Okay, so yeah, you get him up. Back on his feet.
Guntrah: And we all—
DM: everybody holds hands really quick and we're like, get the fuck out of here. He casts the spell and you guys all disappear, and we'll see where you land next time. Dang, that was pretty good.
