DM: All right, we are live. This is session 5, uh, and like I just said, you guys were walking back to the clearing where you had previously spent the evening in the tiny hut. Um, you just spoke with Tedrovaxiliath. Uh, he, uh, agreed to hold his end of the bargain. And is kind of directing you how to leave the forest in the direction of your choosing. Um, the fox that had escorted you to the cave and back is also escorting you to the clearing so you don't get— you do not get lost. Um, and lastly, as I mentioned, Vrenn, the drow that you've been accompanying, uh, that you kind of not exactly kidnapped, persuaded, whatever. He ended up leaving the Abyss for you guys, and he is suffering from the debilitation that the Fomorians gave him, so he's a little slow. Uh, and it is becoming evening, maybe 6 PM, 6:30, uh, and you are on your way to the clearing. Um, while you are on your way to the clearing, I'm gonna actually roll a d4 here to see something. Oh, let's see.
Tito: It's already starting.
DM: Uh, no, this was just to pick which one of you I'm gonna narrate this for. Um, Silas, uh, as you're walking through the woods with your companions, uh, you get a message in your head. Um, and the message, it says, Voss, yesterday's sending failed, which should not be possible. Where are you? What is your condition? And what did you find? 25 words, choose them. And you're familiar with the spell. You, you probably even have the spell, um, but it's a sending spell which allows you to respond how you would like within 25 words.
Silas: But it says Voss?
DM: She wasn't— that was her way of saying who the spell is, who's sending this message to you. Oh, she's self-declaring.
Silas: Okay, do I know Voss?
DM: Yeah, she's your boss.
Silas: Oh, that Voss.
DM: Voss the boss. Voss the boss.
Silas: Okay.
Silas: So, so she said—
DM: She said yesterday's sending failed, which should not be possible. Where are you? What is your condition? And what did you find? 25 words, choose them.
Guntrah: Oh, right, because yesterday it failed because we weren't on the same plane, right?
Silas: Uh, do we know where we're at exactly? Like, I mean, we know kind of, but, um, we saw on a map—
DM: You surmise, you surmise that you're in Neverwinter Wood. You're not confident of it, but that's where you think But where we came from was the Abyss, right? Somewhere from somewhere in the Abyss. You don't know which. There's like a thousand, more than a thousand, I think, layers in the Abyss, and you were at one of them.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: So, uh, and you don't have to be specific with 25 words. I'm not gonna count and hold you to it.
Silas: I'll just keep it short. It came from Abyss, believe Believed in Neverwinter Woods.
Tito: Uh, heading southwest.
Silas: Heading southwest to a town. To a town.
Guntrah: Okay, bananas, bananas, bananas, bananas, bananas, bananas, bananas.
DM: Uh, okay, all right. And it's just a, a there-and-back sending spell, so there's no follow-up conversation. That's it. Um, unless of course she chooses to cast it again. And when it arrives, you don't hear it. It's more like a— you hear the words, but they're not in the sender's voice.
Tavian: So you—
DM: it's not, you know, you can't hear her voice saying it. So that's why she announced who was the one sending you the spell. But it's like a telepathic transaction.
Silas: Okay.
DM: You guys move on a little bit further. The fox, you know, keeps leading you guys, and Vrenn's doing his best to keep up. And eventually you do make it to the clearing again, probably pushing 7 o'clock now. Um, you don't see— there's just a little bit of ambient light from the sun, although because the wood is so thick outside the clearing, um, even at the clearing, the, the foliage above you still kind of blocks all of the direct sunlight. So it's not particularly bright, but you have arrived back where you previously spent the night. Um, it might be a little bit too early because it's not sundown yet. to set up camp, but I don't know if there's anything else you guys wanted to do until then, or if you wanted to try to leave the forest at night, projecting at least several hours worth on foot to get out of the clearing. You know that— well, I guess you don't know this, metagaming— Vrenn has an opportunity to cure himself, or to help— you guys can help him get cured from his Fomorian curse at the end of a long rest and not before then. Unless someone has the Remove Curse spell, which is a high-level spell and you probably don't have it.
Tavian: I do want to just ask Brenn, like, how are you feeling, buddy? You don't look too good.
DM: Um, he, he doesn't— he doesn't physically look good. He looks deformed, right? And he looks a little bit maybe exhausted, but he, he looks like he's not mentally exhausted. He looks like he's in decent spirits. All things considered. Um, so yeah, he's— he kind of looks at you as he's struggling. He's sweating a little bit. He's like, um, I'm, I'm okay, I'm okay. I just trying to figure out what to do next.
Tavian: Regretting jumping through that portal yet?
DM: I didn't have a choice. Um, the caster has to go. Whoever cast the spell has to go. I didn't have a choice. And I mean, if, if Silas had, had been able to get back on his feet, perhaps he could have cast it, but I wasn't I wasn't gonna, you know, let that be the mistake, so I did it myself.
Tito: How much longer do you think we have before—
DM: Before Morvek?
Tito: Before Morvek shows up.
DM: Um, could be tomorrow, could be 3 more days, I don't know. Um, he's not usually one to do dirty business himself, he usually contracts things out, so But this, you know, this thing, he might just come himself personally. I don't know. But regardless, I don't want you guys to be involved in that.
Tito: This—
DM: he is not someone to trifle with. Um, you should not be near me when— if and when he shows up. Now, if he sends some of his other people to collect me, I'm sure you'd be capable of handling them, but—
Tito: We have no way of knowing.
DM: Well, he— so he, he's powerful and he can scry on me. He, you know, he has the ability to know where I am at all times with that Grave Token or whatever it is that he called it. And so he, you know, if he scries on me, he probably will see you guys, and I don't know what he's gonna make of that. You know, if he sees the dragon with me, I don't think he'll come for me.
Tavian: Well... I don't think Ted's joining us or gonna help us.
Tito: No, but we can leave Vrenn here with the dragon.
DM: Do you say that out loud?
Tavian: Yeah.
DM: Uh, Vrenn's passively nodding.
Silas: I'm—
DM: I was thinking the same thing. I don't— I think maybe, you know, stuck between a rock and a hard place. Might not be so bad working for the dragon instead of working for a lich, you know?
Tito: Is Ted still around?
Silas: No.
DM: You guys, uh—
Tito: We already passed through that clearing. We made our way to somewhere else?
DM: No, you just arrived back where you set up camp the night before.
Guntrah: Did he give us permission to stay another night? I think we asked. He—
DM: yeah, you asked and he said if that's what you want, yes, you can do that.
Tavian: Tavian being very crew-oriented. Vrenn, come on, you're part of the crew. Stay with us.
DM: I'm not. I'm, I'm not, frankly.
Guntrah: Well, maybe we should do the honors of making you one, huh?
Tito: And you guys want a lich chasing after us?
DM: Precisely. That's— I feel like if I follow you any further, any, any more beyond today, I'm putting you guys at risk, and I'm not gonna do that.
Tito: That's very heroic of you, and I applaud you, and I encourage this plan.
Guntrah: I think we could probably protect him from a lich.
DM: Yeah, I never leave anyone behind.
Guntrah: All 5 of us can't take on a single lich? Well, I guess we don't have any holy men amongst us. That might be it. Whoa, wait, holy?
Tito: That's your power.
Tavian: Yeah, just— I have an Oath of Glory.
Guntrah: Sounds pretty sick.
DM: It would be glorious to kill a lich on bloody Vrenn's behalf.
Silas: Sounds pretty cool.
Tito: Perhaps we could befriend this dragon by regifting him Vrenn after he denied our first gift and allow us visitation rights. Maybe a pen pal?
Tavian: All right, I might get another, uh, glyph lit up on my sword if we, uh, defeat a lich on his map.
Tito: Dedicated to glory. Yeah, you probably would.
Guntrah: Well, at the end of the day, it's Vrenn's idea and it's his choice, so how about sleep on it tonight and then we'll, uh, you can make a choice in the morning.
Tito: Sounds good.
DM: Uh, anything else before—
Tito: Yeah, I'm just gonna like pedal around the clearing a little bit. All right, what are you doing? Just looking, kicking stuff, kicking stuff, kicking stones, moving stuff around.
DM: So this is a pretty— I think I described it earlier, it's like 50 feet across maybe. Um, and at the edges of the clearing it's kind of thorny. Uh, the The growth here is not like your typical forest growth that you're accustomed to coming from the Fey, where everything's, you know, weird and pretty. This is a little bit more— not sickly is not the right word, but it's more unpleasant. You know, like I said, everything's got a will to survive, and you don't— fit well with that idea. So, you know, the bushes don't move out of your way as easily as they do in other woods.
Guntrah: It's more—
DM: that's the green dragon's influence in this area.
Guntrah: There's still that mist, or—
DM: And there's still a fine green mist on the ground everywhere. Now you do notice that when you split off from Ted, the effects of the forest and the mist did start to diminish a little bit. Not a lot, but a little bit. All right, um, last thing to do before, uh, you guys decide to rest.
Tito: Um, you also get a message, uh, and I think I have this one in here somewhere.
Guntrah: God, is that you?
Tito: Which one?
DM: Here it is. Uh, Gunn, it's your father. Tried the stone yesterday, got nothing. Your mother's fretting. Are you eating? Do you need anything, son? Anything at all?
Guntrah: What's my father's name?
DM: I don't know, you made him up. No, that's right, because it was also Silas. Oh yeah, but then I think you ended up calling I'm calling him Sil for short.
Tavian: You have Silas and Silas.
Guntrah: Yeah, Silas and Silas.
Tito: You don't even know your own parents' names.
DM: You can, you can, you can retcon a different name if you want.
Guntrah: I wrote it down, I thought, somewhere.
DM: It was Silas. It was Silas.
Guntrah: But what was my mom's name?
DM: Vrenn or something like that.
Silas: Vrenn?
DM: I don't know. Hold on, I'm sure it's in my notes.
Silas: Breena.
Guntrah: Silas.
DM: Silas and Breena.
Guntrah: Yeah, yeah, it's in my notes.
Silas: Breena or Breena?
DM: Breena. Guntrah's adoptive parents. No, it's both of them, somewhere around 3 feet tall.
Guntrah: Yeah, I, I worked in a tinker shop as a big boy.
Silas: Oh yeah.
Guntrah: Um, okay, uh, he asked if I was eating, it was all right. And this is from the stone, right?
DM: Yeah, it's through your speaking stone.
Guntrah: Dad? Uh, no, I, I, I, I'm good. I'm actually eating well. Um, just out here with— at my new job, uh, with the boys.
DM: That's probably about all you're gonna be able to communicate because it has the same limitations.
Guntrah: Oh, does it?
DM: Yeah, the Sending spell just goes through the stone as opposed to telepathy.
Guntrah: But you just keep going back and forth, right? Uh, once per day?
DM: That was our old— my own custom Sending Stones from the previous campaign.
Tavian: I don't know the actual I look at Silas, I'm like, check out Gun talking to a rock.
Guntrah: As this rock goes—
DM: Yeah, once Sending is cast using either stone, the stones can't be used again till the next dawn.
Guntrah: Okay, if I knew there's a limitation, I'd be like, eating well, working your job with guys, uh, somewhere in the Neverwinter Forest, allegedly, maybe, uh Doing well.
Silas: Good.
Silas: And then I'm like, why are you talking to that rock?
DM: Yeah, I don't know that you showed them your stone before.
Guntrah: Uh, it glows. It goes back to a rock.
DM: Yeah, it looks non-magical after you're done.
Guntrah: Oh, uh, I talked to my parents with this.
Tavian: Oh wow.
Silas: I just go—
Silas: I'm like, I do that with the brain.
Guntrah: You guys never had a sending stone?
Silas: Oh, oh, it's a thing?
Silas: Really?
Guntrah: I thought you were—
DM: No, he has a sending stone.
Tavian: You're just gonna send it?
Silas: No, I know.
DM: Oh, okay.
Silas: My character's just saying it like, oh, sending stone.
Tito: Oh, sending stone.
DM: I mean, yeah, you guys heard of those?
Guntrah: Similar to how I can do this, fly up.
Silas: Oh yeah.
Guntrah: And you know, there's things out here that can hold magic other than just casting it.
Silas: Oh yeah, that's pretty cool.
DM: You know, I would even go so far as to say, being an artificer and your dad being an artificer, that your sending stones probably don't look like rocks at all. Like, how do you want it to look? Because it would be mechanical in nature, right? Like a walkie-talkie's got an antenna.
Tito: A big 1980s—
Guntrah: I like, I like to keep the aesthetic that like a lot of my things are rounded.
Silas: Okay.
Guntrah: Because they're well crafted.
Tavian: Okay.
Guntrah: So instead of like a block, it'd be like a round ball that like maybe I go and like I didn't go and then it comes out and then it retracts and then I just—
DM: But it's just like a metal ball. A grenade?
Guntrah: Well, I'm thinking a metal ball that's like kind of bronze with like a bunch of like swirls on it that kind of almost look like would be like a microphone.
Silas: Okay.
Guntrah: Um, but obviously not like this, but a little larger.
DM: Steampunky maybe?
Guntrah: Steampunk for sure.
Tito: Okay, okay.
Guntrah: Yeah, just like—
Tito: yeah, yes, yes.
Guntrah: Did you guys study at all?
DM: Uh, okay, so that's the last event I have for the evening. Anything else before you guys set up the tiny hut?
Silas: I'm assuming your tiny, tiny hut.
Silas: Again, do you want to?
Guntrah: Yes, yes. Um, of course the remaining firewood that, um, Ted hooked us up with.
DM: Yeah, he threw that, that large log at you guys.
Guntrah: Yeah, I'm gonna take my axe, chop it, make a fire. Uh, I'm gonna go ahead and—
DM: Did you guys do the fire in?
Guntrah: We did in.
DM: Yeah, yeah, because you didn't have to. Remember, the tiny hut controls climate and temperature.
Guntrah: So yeah, we could have it in or out, it doesn't matter. I think we did in last time. I think we'll probably do the same thing.
Silas: Okay.
Guntrah: Um, and, uh, I'll have Ollie here kind of walk up to me and go, you know, beep bop boo.
Tito: And then, uh, none of us wake up in the morning because we all die from carbon monoxide poisoning.
Guntrah: And Ollie's gonna come up and then I'm gonna go, all right, buddy. I'm gonna pull a little container or a little like latch and press a button. He just powers completely down. And then I'm just gonna bring out my, uh, my everything tool or all-purpose tool. I'm gonna start tinkering, and I'm going to put missiles into it.
Silas: Missiles?
Tavian: I want to play sidebar with Bren and try to persuade him to stay with the crew.
Silas: Okay.
Tavian: And basically be like, Bren, you've basically saved us, and we've been through a lot. We defeated the oni, avoided the beast in the cave.
DM: You've already left out probably the most important part, which is I'm responsible for all of this.
Silas: I—
DM: if I hadn't done what Morvek asked me to do and mailed that package, you wouldn't even have been anywhere. None of this would have happened.
Tavian: Yeah, but that's no fault of your own. I understand following orders.
DM: I believe in free will. If at any moment I choose to stop working for Morvek, I can do that, which I did, frankly, when I, when I cast the spell and left the plane.
Tavian: Well, I feel like since the plane, we've defeated oni, we've defeated fomorians. We can help cure whatever's ailing you, and I think you should stick with the crew.
DM: I, I appreciate the gesture. I really do.
Guntrah: I've—
DM: I can't say I've ever had friends in my life, and I, I mean, I guess you guys have probably come as close as anybody. But then it's settled. Can I roll for this? Make a persuasion roll.
Silas: Yep, that's a 9.
DM: Okay, uh, he, he kind of doesn't want to be rude. He doesn't want to say no, so he's kind of just more of the, yeah, you know, I'll think about it.
Tavian: Okay, that's fair.
Silas: We'll think about it.
Guntrah: So what I want to actually do with my tinkering is this. I have Magical Tinkering.
Silas: Mm-hmm.
Guntrah: So basically I can— I mean, I can put in magical properties of my choice up to 5 items.
Tito: Mm-hmm.
Guntrah: And what I wanted to do is get a number of stones, and I wanted to have it to where I can give all the, you know, a couple of these stones and give them a couple of these values, which are Um, 5 feet radius of light, so a stone that you can toss or shoot that would be 5 feet of light. 6 seconds long recorded message. Yeah, emits an odor or non-verbal sound.
Tito: Yep.
Guntrah: Static visual effects, 25 words. Uh, I can do 5 items at a time, but I want to like load it as rockets, basically like give him a little—
DM: Yeah, he can have a little catapult mechanism.
Guntrah: A launch spring.
DM: Yeah, spring-loaded launcher. Right.
Guntrah: And then it'd be like, that's the light one. All right, so it's like, oh, we need some light over there, or okay, let's put an odor over there.
DM: So the thing is, you do have to— when you load them, you have to do the magical effects. You can't declare it when— sure, in the moment.
Guntrah: And I wanted to do, uh, 2 lights, 1 odor.
DM: 2 lights and 1 odor, so 3.
Guntrah: So 3 total.
Tavian: Okay, it's like racking a shotgun.
Guntrah: Yeah, I can easily do it and have it in my satchel. And like toss them, but like it just seems cooler if it comes out of my robot.
DM: Right, right. Um, so what is the odor you choose?
Guntrah: Um, I'm gonna do like noxious gas.
DM: Just, just something putrid?
Guntrah: Something disgusting that'll make people think that like maybe the area, you need to get out of there. Like, you know, like—
DM: Well, but there's also differences in who, who's smelling it, right? So if you did that and like the dragon were to smell it, it wouldn't be noxious to him probably.
Guntrah: Sure.
DM: Because his lifestyle is not—
Guntrah: I'm thinking like, you know, like Something that, like, a human or something, a human, or like, you know, gnoll, something like that, where it's like a smell that would make them worried that like maybe like this is poison or this is something like that. I mean, I don't know the D&D equivalents of like Axe body spray.
DM: Yeah, it's kilo Axe body spray loaded up, just a whole can, a whole can. It's like a, like an Axe glitter bomb.
Tavian: Yeah, yeah.
Guntrah: So, so I think I said 2 lights or 1 light, 2, 2.
DM: You said 2 lights, 1 odor.
Guntrah: Yeah, that's, yeah, that's it.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: All right, you remember that, not me. 2 lights, 1 odor.
Silas: Okay.
Guntrah: I just think it's fun to like shoot the light over there.
DM: You could even have like, uh, hand signals so you don't have to verbally communicate it to him. So you establish the hand signals.
Guntrah: Oh yeah, well, I mean, he understands what I said.
DM: Can you talk telepathically to him? I bet you can. Maybe not. Anyway, we'll move on. You can figure that out. Okay, so anything else?
Tito: Not if I don't see any treasure laying around or anything.
DM: You do not see any treasures laying around. I forgot you were walking the clearing, weren't you?
Tito: Just kind of feels like a place.
DM: Um, you see lots of— it's kind of like Australia, like not everything wants to kill you, but you're also like, eh.
Tavian: I was trying to find this all last session.
DM: Not exactly Leomund's Tiny Hut, but hey, same energy.
Silas: Ready, go. It's when freaking Obi-Wan's in the hut and Maul's just waiting for it.
DM: Yeah, it's kind of the same exact thing.
Tito: Isaac and Laskel hanging out.
DM: Yeah, exactly. That was great. Okay, so tiny hut it is. Yeah, same as last time. You get the fire, tiny hut. Everybody will say you throw it up at dusk, and that way it's expected to be gone at dawn. Everybody gets their 8 hours of sleep, which we have no transfers, correct?
Guntrah: Uh, we have no half-elves or elves?
DM: I don't think so. I'm grateful for— I never liked the whole— I feel like trancing breaks the concepts of long rest a little bit.
Guntrah: We get 2 trances, like, oh, I'll do the first watch, right?
Tito: Take second watch.
Tavian: Yeah, bro.
Guntrah: Yeah. Also, I'm trancing, so I'm kind of almost aware, which I still disagree with.
Tito: I disagree too.
DM: Yeah, when you're trancing, you're oblivious. No, that's not what the rules say. I'm, I'm the rules.
Silas: Fuck hell, I'm the captain now.
Guntrah: Yeah.
DM: So, uh, all right, so everybody gets their long rest.
Tavian: Um, all right, I gotta roll for my Ring of Ram, see how many charges I get. Anyone else have anything like that? I don't.
Tito: My ring is a Ring of Free Action, so if it's actually— I can traverse difficult terrain with no consequences.
Tavian: Yes, all charges back.
Guntrah: Did you use them?
Tavian: Um, I'd used all 3 in my very first go. We slept once before. I only got 1 charge back.
Guntrah: All right. Oh, and like, yeah, after I do the modifications, of course I turn Ollie back on.
Silas: Sure. Yeah.
DM: Anybody still working on their long rest, or you got it?
Silas: No.
Tito: Good.
DM: Okay, I'm going to roll for Vrenn to see if he loses his deformity.
Guntrah: It is a—
Silas: I think a— shoot—
DM: Constitution. Yeah, Constitution saving throw. Hold on a second.
Tito: It'll be easier to say goodbye if he's still ugly.
Silas: Why is that?
Tito: Get away from us, dude. He's like touching your face and I just don't— Well, we're gonna be walking into town with him.
Guntrah: Just throw a blanket over him.
Silas: Yeah, but we want to walk in like, yeah, but he comes in, he's all like— they're like, these guys aren't that scary.
Guntrah: We're kind of maybe more scary. Oh, maybe put a leash on.
Silas: Oh, there you go. Now that would make—
Tavian: Or Spike Collar.
Tito: Yeah, he found us over the woods. I mean, if he doesn't want to come, we can hold him hostage.
Tavian: He's part of the crew, man.
DM: Yeah, you guys have a disagreement over that.
Guntrah: Yeah, I think— okay, I think Christian has a DM's pet vibe going.
DM: Oh yeah, maybe. All right, DC 14 charisma saving throw.
Guntrah: Um, Is there any help that can be given?
DM: I was wondering if you were gonna say that. Um, yeah, uh, I think so. Anything that you can do to boost saving throws, that's gonna be the only way.
Guntrah: If Bless— we got Bless here.
Tito: We know that we've got—
Tavian: he's trying, right? Does that not work?
DM: No, actually, that's a good point. We're metagaming right now. You guys probably don't even know. You might think this is permanent.
Tavian: This is saving throw. Yeah, he's next to me and he gets +3, right?
DM: So he'll get that because that's automatic. But I would say you guys don't know to improve his ability to get rid of this.
Guntrah: I would say the only person that I know would be this guy. Yeah, because he does deal in like—
DM: That's a good, that's a good question. Okay, do, do me a favor, make a— whichever is better for you, either Arcana or Nature. Um, unless this is something you want to argue that you learned in your studies, in that case it would be History. But I would say whichever one of those is best for you.
Tavian: History's best.
DM: They're all Intelligence, but History I get a I, I would say 13 or better, and you've heard of this effect.
Guntrah: Because paladins can have an idea.
Tavian: Yeah, but I can also enhance abilities, so I can give him an advantage on his charisma check, right?
DM: So yeah, make a DC 13, uh, check for—
Tavian: 16.
DM: Okay, so yeah, so you, you recall a lesson from the FAIL Academy where you learned common curses and maladies or something like that, and one of them was the evil eyes. It affected an entire race of giant elves, and now they're referred to as Fomorians, and they do this thing. And, uh, you know that it's called Eagle Eye?
Tito: Evil Eye.
Tavian: Oh, Evil Eye. I was gonna say, I'm gonna cast Eagle's Splendor. Eagle's Splendor, which gives him advantage on charisma checks.
DM: Oh, are you gonna do that?
Silas: Yeah.
Silas: Okay.
Tavian: And he gets the advantage plus my +3.
DM: Advantage and +3?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: And then I don't even know what his charisma is.
Guntrah: That's a level 2.
Silas: You're trying to recruit a friend.
DM: He is. All right, his charisma saving throw is +0, so every little bit's gonna help. Yeah, uh, 13+ 3, so the advantage worked. The other dice rolls a 7.
Tito: So yeah, ready again.
DM: So yeah, um, When— well, I would, I would say thematically how it worked is your presence, I guess, your healing presence as a, as a paladin.
Tavian: You have to touch him to bestow this magical enchantment. Choose one of the following effects, which would have been Eagle's Splendor, right?
DM: And, and because the, the curse, the way it's worded, it, it happens at the end of a long rest. I would say it happens overnight, so to speak.
Tavian: So sleeping and—
DM: Yeah, so you're kind of like this, you, you help. Probably just hear him going, uh, uh, uh. Yeah, you just— a few words of encouragement that are effectively a spell, or, you know. Yeah, so you're able to, to help him get rid of it. He probably doesn't know that that's why it's gone, um, and maybe you, you probably have an idea that that's— you, you helped him get rid of it.
Tavian: Silas.
DM: But yeah, so, uh, you guys, I think he likes it. Hey, Tavian's just trying something new. Uh, anyway, so you all wake up and then Vrenn's like, oh, this is, this is awesome, I'm, I'm back to myself.
Silas: Oh great, wow.
DM: Um, and then immediately everybody notices that the dome disappears. And Ted, just like last time, he's got his head sticking out of the canopy and he's staring at you guys. Uh, and, uh, he— as soon as he, he has your attention, you notice that he's there and you'll turn and face him. He says, You told me that you belonged here. You told me that one was your prisoner. I, I was within hearing the first night before your little dome went up. He is your friend.
Tito: You said so. Several of you said so.
DM: I told you that you might leave my forest. I said it exactly the way you said that he was yours.
Tito: A lie for a lie.
DM: That is the whole of what I owe you. You are not leaving.
Silas: Oh, oh shoot.
Guntrah: Uh, you know, sometimes prisoners can become friends, Ted.
Tito: Yeah, that's what I was about to say as well.
DM: Stockholm syndrome.
Silas: Yeah, heard of it?
DM: You don't persist in this lie, do you?
Guntrah: Well, if I'm honest, we were kind of prisoners of his realm, and then he helped us, and we kind of took him prisoner of our realm. And then, you know, after time you have admiration for people.
DM: So you lied when you said that he was the one that I smelled the Abyss, when it was all of you?
Guntrah: Well, he's stinky. Kind of rubs off on you when you sleep in a dome together. I'm not from the Abyss.
DM: I didn't ask if you were from the Abyss.
Guntrah: It's confusing, Ted. You're making it confusing. We're not trying to—
DM: Roll a deception check.
Tavian: Well, we'll be on our way.
Guntrah: We're not trying to deceive him.
DM: Yeah, you're lying when you said that you're not his friend, that you— or you're not, you're not lying, but you're, you're deliberately avoiding the truth.
Guntrah: I never said—
DM: Which is that you're weak of the Abyss, maybe not as much as him.
Guntrah: I never said I was not his friend, by the way. That was not—
Tavian: okay, I never said he was.
Silas: Oh, fuck.
Tito: It was me that said it.
Guntrah: It was this guy who said it. I'm just clarifying that, like, you know, I passed through the Abyss. I'm not from the or of the Abyss.
DM: And also, I just said he's part of our crew, and I don't have the exact verbiage from that other conversation.
Guntrah: It was this guy.
DM: Okay, fine, you make your deception check then. They're putting it on you.
Guntrah: Well, I'm just saying it was this guy. I'm being honest.
Silas: The best one to Yeah, it is.
Tito: I will attempt to deceive this green dragon.
DM: Or you can be honest right now.
Guntrah: I mean, I said nothing but honesty.
Tito: Um, speaking truth, son.
Silas: I will—
Tito: here's how I will word it. You must be hearing things. I am I'm shocked that a green dragon of your nature could think that us 4 weak party members could deceive such a great beast. What we told you is the truth.
DM: Okay, roll your deception.
Tito: I'm going to use a luck point.
DM: And well, if you roll first, then you might not need to use your luck point.
Tito: Okay, 24.
Guntrah: It's pretty good.
DM: It's pretty good. That's pretty good. Let me check the modifier for you. I didn't know that I was gonna need this.
Tito: Uh, Bardic Inspiration to it too before I use my Luck Point.
DM: You do what you need to do.
Silas: Oh, a 9.
Tito: Is that a 9, right?
Tavian: 9. 33.
Tito: Yeah, 33.
DM: Yeah, 33 is good enough. I, I was gonna say, I'm pretty sure with his modifier was going to end up being 29, so 33 is good. Cards are so fun. Well, the thing is, is you, you win, you win the roll, but it's not because you successfully deceived him, it's because you played on his vanity.
Tito: Yes, correct.
DM: And, and that's what kind of— he's like, he's of the opinion that it's almost like the, okay, well, I'm gonna let this one go. This is kind of the attitude he has. He's like, he's like, uh, perhaps I did. Regardless, you're not leaving this forest. And then he starts to back his head into the, the woods, and Vrenn pipes up, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
Tito: Found some way out.
DM: This was always going to be the way out. Um, and Vrenn's like, I I don't know how much you've heard, but I— my soul kind of belongs to a lich, and he's sort of looking for me. Um, these guys don't want me to leave, or at least most of them don't want me to leave, but I, I think it's in my best interest if I'm not with them anymore. And I know you earlier were gonna make a deal for me to stay with you. If that offer's still on the table— I can just stay here and you can let them go? Maybe? I'm gonna make a persuasion roll for Vrenn.
Tavian: Tear wells in Tavian's eyes.
DM: Uh, oh, +0, and he rolls a 3.
Tito: Um, yeah, the, the green dragon says, uh, that offer is no longer on the table.
DM: And he continues to withdraw his head into the canopy. Um, you don't hear him or you don't see him.
Tavian: It just—
DM: it goes quiet. You're standing in this clearing.
Tavian: I just say, so can we go now?
Guntrah: I think this is our home now.
Tavian: Let's try to walk towards where that—
Silas: We can try.
Tavian: City was.
Tito: The fire. Do you remember what direction it was?
Guntrah: Southwest?
DM: It was, it was like a— it was more of a kind of west-southwest. Yeah, that was the direction that you were going to leave. So you guys gonna try to start walking?
Tavian: Yeah, what do you think, Silas?
DM: I'm waiting for a consensus.
Guntrah: Well, all right, let, let him look at his stuff. I'm gonna go people-free.
Silas: All right, I know what I'm gonna do.
Tito: Vicious mockery. We did deceive you, you old bitch. Dumbass. You gotta be the dopest dragon I ever saw. Damn, so if he would have persuaded him, the dragon would have let us— let us be. If he would have won that persuasion roll.
DM: Yeah, but odds were he never would have. He has a +0. Dragons are resistant to persuasion, essentially. Oh, I mean, it could have— it could have happened, but it wasn't going to happen with him arguing on his own. Yeah, and that's what happened.
Guntrah: So, Russ, what are you thinking?
Silas: Uh, I don't have any.
Tito: I thought I had something planned for us, so—
Silas: Okay, nice.
DM: You might, you might want to talk about it before you do it.
Tito: No, I'm just gonna do it. Sometimes you just gotta rip the Band-Aid off.
Tavian: Oh yeah.
Guntrah: Depends on how old this dragon is.
Tavian: All right, ready?
Guntrah: We all ready? I mean, you're doing something without us knowing.
DM: Yeah, yeah, tell me what you're doing.
Tito: Yeah, I cast Vicious Mockery.
DM: Okay, what is the spell wording again?
Tito: You unleash a string of insults laced with subtle enchantments at one creature you can see or hear within range.
DM: So you can't see him or hear him right now. You don't know what the range is to him. You can say it, but you don't know if it's gonna Yeah, I'm gonna say it.
Tito: Okay, target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or take 1d6 psychic damage and have disadvantage on the next attack roll makes before the end of its turn. Damage increases by 1d6 when you reach levels 5, 11, 17. So if it succeeds, it will cast at 3d6.
DM: So, oh, you're cat— you're upcasting it?
Tito: No, it automatically increases just by—
DM: Oh, because it's a cantrip in your level 11.
Silas: Yes.
DM: Um, and then what are you saying or shouting?
Tito: I will shout, so he said we can't leave?
DM: Yeah, he's— yeah, he basically said do not leave, and then he ducked away.
Tito: Yeah, I'm gonna say, we did deceive you, you little bitch.
Guntrah: Oh, I'm gonna slowly walk.
DM: You said this is a wisdom saving throw?
Guntrah: Yeah, I'm pacing away from him, and then I'm gonna say Towards the northwest.
Tito: You gotta be the dumbest dragon we ever saw. Another step further away.
Guntrah: Oh no, these are— it's not stopping, it's just—
Silas: yeah, it's like Homer Simpson. Homer Simpson in the bush.
Guntrah: I'm gonna go— Ollie drops behind me. I'm like, let's go, let's go.
DM: Uh, okay, 17. Is that a pass or a fail?
Tito: Uh, that passes.
Guntrah: Oh, it does pass.
DM: Okay, so, so nothing happens?
Tito: No damage.
DM: Nothing else either?
Tito: Nope.
DM: Okay, so you say that. Yeah, it's complete silence. You don't hear any response at all.
Tito: Okay, well, I turn around and start following these guys. I know he wasn't gonna let us leave.
DM: Okay, so it's, it's 50 feet. We'll say you guys are roughly in the center, so we'll say 25 or 20 feet to the edge of clearing. You start heading in that direction. You get about 5 feet from the edge of the clearing, and—
Guntrah: Before we get all the way up there, can I assess how dense the woods are?
Tito: Because if he's a large—
DM: It's very dense.
Guntrah: So how's he moving along through the woods?
Tavian: He kind of controls the plants.
DM: Yeah, it's, it's complicated, but yeah, he, he's at one with his lair, and so he's able to move at a normal speed even though he's larger and the gaps are tight.
Guntrah: Is coming from what direction?
DM: Uh, northeast, so the opposite direction you would go.
Guntrah: Opposite direction.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Well, that's where he— that's where his head was sticking out, but you don't know where he's at now.
Guntrah: Okay.
DM: And in— I would say, sure, why don't— why doesn't everybody roll Insight just to kind of judge this situation a little bit?
Silas: Can he— would I know, like, if a dragon would be able to see, like, if we're visible, if he could see us?
Guntrah: Natural 20 for 22.
DM: Yeah, Luke, to your knowledge, dragons don't have an inherent way of seeing invisible things. That's not a normal thing. What were your insight rolls?
Guntrah: I got a natural.
DM: Natural 20?
Silas: Yeah.
Tavian: 22.
Silas: Okay.
Tito: Um, I got 18.
Silas: With—
DM: I would say all 3 of you with those numbers, you know that it's dangerous to fight a dragon. It is doubly so in its own lair where it has every advantage and you're at a disadvantage. So this situation screams flee, not fight.
Guntrah: Does this, uh, woods— is it dry? Is it moist?
Silas: It's not—
DM: it's more dry than moist, but it's more— it's more normal. Well, I would say it's fairly both.
Tito: It's gotta be a little damp with the mist.
DM: A little damp with the mist, but also the stuff that grows here is kind of a little bit— not swampy, but a little bit more moisture-filled than a typical forest. Um, it's more jungle than forest.
Guntrah: Would fire—
DM: Fire wouldn't— it wouldn't just like spread wildfire.
Guntrah: What about like a fireball?
DM: A fireball would do some damage, would knock some trees down, blow some things out of the way, and make a, you know, a 30-foot-wide path or whatever.
Tito: That just—
DM: maybe a little bit bigger than that. Um, but beyond that, it would still be slow going.
Guntrah: Um, he's northeast, right? Yes, in the woods.
DM: That's where he was.
Tito: Yes.
Silas: Right.
Guntrah: We want to go southwest. Southwest.
Silas: Yep.
Guntrah: I say, boys, let's move west quickly. And I look, who has fire? You have Fireball, right? Hit the northwest corner with a Fireball as we duck into the woods.
Silas: Okay.
Guntrah: Um, so running towards the west part of the woods Which I know we want to go southwest, but I'm gonna go west first.
DM: You're gonna go west, not southwest?
Tito: Correct.
Silas: Okay.
Guntrah: And my hopes here are when we hit the tree line, he casts Fireball in the northwest corner from the clearing.
DM: Northwest corner, not right.
Guntrah: So if he's northeast, yeah, he's wanting to probably get to this way. So I'm saying burn the—
DM: I see what you're saying.
Tito: I will cast Fireball to the south as well.
Guntrah: And what I want to do is then, as he hits that northwest, I want Ollie to shoot the 2 light balls on the other side of the fire closest to us as we then immediately pivot, go south.
Tavian: Okay.
Guntrah: To try to maybe make him think we're moving.
DM: Makes sense. I think I understand your plan. Um, Okay, so you guys are all 4 or 5 of you, I guess, because Vrenn is just gonna follow along with whatever you're doing. You're all 5 heading west, not southwest.
Tito: Okay, right.
DM: Uh, before you get to the clearing— or sorry, the edge of the clearing— before you enter the woods, I do need everyone to make a Constitution saving throw, please. Plus 3, right?
Tavian: Yeah, plus 3 to your Constitution.
DM: Yeah, if everybody is— we'll assume they're all close enough to you to get that, and then I'll roll for Vrenn.
Guntrah: Yes, nat 20!
DM: Vrenn gets a +1.
Guntrah: 29.
DM: So wow, Vrenn gets a dirty 20 with his +1 and your +3. You got a 16 on the dice.
Silas: 19.
Tito: 19 plus 3, 9. And I'm gonna use a Bardic Inspiration.
Silas: 2.
Tito: I'm gonna use a luck point for my First roll.
Silas: Nat 20.
Tito: Let's go!
DM: Use a luck point before the Bardic.
Tito: Yeah, but I only have like 4 luck points and I already used one. Okay, so I used a Bardic too, so we have—
DM: Vrenn got 19, you got—
Silas: I got 19.
Tavian: 19.
DM: You guys all got 20+, right?
Guntrah: 29.
Tito: Nat 20.
DM: 2 nats. Okay, that beats the DC 18. Um, so I don't have enough dice for this. You know, I'm just gonna do a portion of it and I'm gonna multiply it. What?
Silas: What?
DM: The poison damage. I don't know, he's doing his breath. So across the clearing, as soon as you reach the edge, he does his poison breath and sprays all of you guys with this poison. So that's not going to be in your favor.
Silas: Oh, it could be.
DM: Okay, so 20 times 4 is 80. Is that right? 20 times 4 is 6, plus 6 is 12, plus 5, 17, plus 3 is 20. And that— I was going to do multiple by 4 instead of rolling 16d6s. So everybody takes 80 damage.
Guntrah: Well, not half damage.
DM: Half, yes, correct. Half damage. 40 damage. Everybody takes 40 poison damage. If anybody's resistant to poison, then that's halved again.
Guntrah: I don't think I'm resisted. Where are resistances at?
DM: Uh, under defenses.
Tavian: Yeah, I don't know what it looks like on your screen, but it's like right up here under defenses, probably close to wherever your AC is.
Guntrah: Oh, uh, it's on the very— speed and defense is a tad way to the far right. 40 points is a heavy hit.
DM: Um, as you guys enter the clearing now, you're doing your fireball things, right? What's going on again? Remind me.
Guntrah: So imagine the clearing is kind of like this.
DM: Sure, we'll say it's a circle here. You're heading west.
Guntrah: We've got a fireball coming here, we've got a fireball going to the south, and then I'm shooting 2 lights just at the other edge of this fireball to make it seem like we're trying to like find our way out.
DM: So you're trying to just, uh, deceive him and thinking that— because you're going which direction?
Guntrah: Uh, northwest.
DM: Okay, even though you asked for directions to the town, which is where I wanted—
Guntrah: He might be thinking— I think he thinks we're going—
DM: He's the smartest creature you've ever met.
Guntrah: Well, he has eyes.
DM: He has literal eyes all throughout the forest and within his 6-mile range that can tell him exactly where you are.
Guntrah: But that's, that's not, you know, we're, we're in panic mode.
DM: Okay, yep, fair enough, fair enough.
Guntrah: We're, we're just like, dude, we gotta go. I'm gonna—
Tavian: can't stay here.
Silas: So does his breath just go everywhere?
DM: It's a cone, so it's, it's like, it's, it's a, we'll say, 30-degree cone or something like that.
Tito: I'm gonna cast a 4th-level Cure Wounds on myself.
Tavian: 80 damage, I would have been down to 1 life.
DM: You have 81?
Tito: Yeah, me and Silas would Oh, I can actually do— so I'm gonna do 4th level Cure Wounds, which is 8d8.
DM: I'll let you do that, but we do need to make sure to figure out the mechanic of ordering and stuff. But yeah, I'll let you do one thing.
Tavian: Okay.
DM: Yeah, I mean, you didn't do anything. Well, no, you're casting Fireball, aren't you? Yeah, then you can't Cure Wounds. Okay, do you— you cast Fireball too, right? Okay, so if you guys haven't used actions, I'll let you each do an action.
Silas: Oh, that's not gonna help anything because this is just poison. You can't do like a shield thing or something because it's poison, right?
DM: Uh, yeah, shield doesn't help for a saving throw.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Or poison damage. Um, and oh, I need to do— what is Vrenn?
Guntrah: So it's just an action?
DM: Yeah, I'll let you do an action here.
Guntrah: So I couldn't combo something like that? Like, I have a healing aura, Aura of Vitality.
Tito: Oh, I have that too.
DM: That's a spell, right?
Guntrah: It's a spell. It's an action to cast.
Tito: It's per turn.
Guntrah: But basically what happens, you can use a bonus action to cause one creature in an aura to gain 2d6. I also have Cure Wounds, which might be the better move here.
DM: Look, you guys had fantastic insight rolls. So I'm just going to make it abundantly clear, this is not a fight you're probably going to win head-on-head. You can try your hand at escaping. Maybe that's something you think you can do well, even though this is difficult terrain for you and not for him. You can fly, he can fly, they can't fly. Think about all the different factors.
Silas: I don't have— I don't—
Tito: my ring of free action, difficult terrain means nothing, right?
DM: Okay, good point. You chose a very good ring.
Guntrah: Um, so I can do a 3rd-level healing. There's, there's kind of like—
Tito: there's a—
Guntrah: all right, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna do this. I'm gonna do a 3rd level Healing Wounds on myself for Cure Wounds.
Tavian: Um, oh, I can get past difficult terrain.
Tito: You can?
Tavian: Yeah, Peerless Athlete. I can channel divinity.
Silas: Nice.
Tito: I think we can take—
Tavian: no.
DM: So he, he has a wounded wing. His previous natural flying speed was 80, which I reduced it in half to 40. So assuming he can still fly 40 plus 40 for a dash, 80 feet per turn, unless you have a way of going faster than that, you're not going to outrun him. And I mean, all of you would have to be able to go faster than that.
Guntrah: I heal myself As much as I can. And then for my movement, I'm gonna shoot to the sky.
DM: Like, you take off with your rocket boots?
Tito: Sure. That's a horrible idea.
DM: So, uh, okay, you're doing Peerless Athlete.
Tavian: Well, hold on, you're flying?
DM: Flying. As he flies—
Guntrah: And as I fly up—
Tito: Can I shout something to him?
DM: Yeah, you can yell whatever you want.
Guntrah: I'm gonna say, over here, you green bastard!
DM: That's suicide, man.
Tito: Jesus.
DM: So what are you gonna do, Tavian?
Guntrah: Um, and obviously Ollie's still on the ground with you guys, and last thing I say to him is protect him.
Silas: And I go to sleep.
Tito: You're telling Ollie to protect us or us to protect Ollie?
Guntrah: For him to protect you guys.
Tavian: Sorry, I need to confirm exactly what Peerless—
Silas: He's gonna 1v1 this dragon.
Guntrah: Or I'm gonna get him far enough away where you boys can get out.
DM: What's your flying speed?
Guntrah: It's the same as my walking speed.
DM: 30?
Guntrah: But I got dashes and stuff like that I can do.
DM: He can dash too. I'm just curious if you can out-dash him.
Guntrah: It's not a smart thing.
Tito: But his movement speed's 40.
Tavian: Oh, fuck, that's not what I thought.
Guntrah: Yeah, my movement speed—
Tito: where the fuck—
Guntrah: oh, it's over there on the insert tab. My flying is 30. I could do a dash, which makes it 60, and I can also do another bonus action dash to make it 90.
DM: That's 10 feet further than he can go per turn.
Guntrah: And I'm farther away from him.
Tito: But he's got ranged attacks.
Guntrah: He's got a breath weapon that has to recharge.
Tito: Other than that, well, maybe some legendary actions.
Guntrah: We don't know that.
Tito: Some legendary resistances, some lair actions, it sounds like.
Tavian: All right, Peerless Athlete is not what I thought it was, but I can grant myself haste, which effectively doubles my movement speed, so I get my full 45 through difficult terrain, right? I would have 90 otherwise, right?
DM: Okay, I got, I got stuff. Haste doesn't ignore difficult terrain.
Tito: Well, as he flies up, I guess we continue Or I'll just say to the group, should we just set up defense here or should we continue to run?
DM: Uh, you guys have to decide that quick.
Tavian: Yeah, we gotta get out of here.
DM: All right, okay, so you're, you're casting Haste on yourself. You're moving 45 feet through the difficult terrain.
Tavian: Yeah, I don't want to be— my goal is to be within range of other folks, which would give them—
DM: If you're gonna go 45, you're gonna outrun them. Bren can't keep up with you. I don't think Silas can I can Misty Step. Yeah, you could do magical stuff on each of the turns to do to help. Yeah, so yeah, when you guys do that, Vrenn's not following. You notice it immediately as soon as you start moving as a group further on after he reached the clearing and got blasted with a poison breath. He turns around, doesn't realize that you're behind him shooting off into the sky, and it looks like he's going to not necessarily make a stand, but, you know, give you time to get away. You don't know if he's gonna die, you don't know if he's gonna just— whatever his situation is, you don't know. But he's gonna, he's gonna stop, turn around, and, uh, kind of just stand there and wait for the dragon. Yeah, I had to move for this.
Guntrah: I got haste also, which doubles my speed. I can now move 180.
DM: Uh, so I'm fast as fuck. Um, I do need everybody also to make a wisdom saving And now I'm not sure. And I would say, I would say these 2— well, are you— are you— you couldn't have cast anything that turn because you did a Fireball, so you're probably lagging a little bit behind him. What's the range on your aura?
Tavian: 10 feet.
DM: 10. I'll give it to you this turn. What, what is, um— you're keeping up with them because you have speed, right?
Guntrah: What is this, wisdom?
Tito: Yeah, so I have 35 walking speed.
Tavian: Oh, con.
Tito: So I would be 10 feet behind.
Guntrah: I thought he said wisdom save.
Tavian: Was it wisdom?
DM: Wisdom.
Tavian: Oh, sorry, you're right.
Silas: Okay, so 17.
DM: 17. 19.
Tavian: 19.
Silas: 23.
DM: 23.
Tito: Not good rolls.
DM: Roll for Vrenn.
Tito: I rolled a 19, so it's gonna be wisdom.
Guntrah: So yeah, I was gonna go up there, cast Haste, and then take it in the opposite direction towards the fire, let you guys get out, and then I'll zoom right back.
Tito: All right, so I have -1 wisdom, so I want an 18.
DM: Okay, uh, actually I think that might be okay.
Guntrah: I think you're in his aura though, he gets +3.
Tito: So yeah, I think it's +3 because I am 10.
DM: Yeah, you're fine. Um, Yeah, I was just— I was having everybody roll for his Frightful Presence, uh, within 120 feet. If you are—
Tavian: I'm immune to frightening, and anyone within 10 is also immune to frightening.
DM: Perfect, perfect. Okay, well, we are frightened. Uh, okay, so nobody's frightened. We're running, but everybody is frightened but not frightened. We're scared.
Silas: I'm scared.
DM: We're scared.
Silas: We're not frightened, we're scared.
DM: Uh, okay, so you're not— you're not subjected to his Frightful Presence, which wouldn't have changed anything anyway for you guys because you're Getting further away from him, not closer to him. Um, okay. Uh, and then I need to see if he gets his breath weapon back. He does not, but you don't know that. Um, okay. Um, and then he is not going around either way. He is crashing right through the, the clearing and, uh, and following you guys on foot right now.
Tito: Uh, he's still faster than us.
DM: Uh, on foot? Oh, I'll say he's 40 feet.
Tito: Oh, okay. Yeah, he's not flying?
DM: Not yet, no. Okay, he's not flying. Yeah, he doesn't fly unless he has to fly.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Um, and so he's just kind of crashing in that same direction, which you said was west earlier, uh, chasing you guys through the woods.
Tavian: Um, I'm gonna hitch a ride with you with a lasso and levitating myself because I can't move horizontally, but something could be moving me.
DM: You hitting trees?
Guntrah: And he's knocked out.
DM: Yeah, uh, so I do need to— let's see here, what's the casting for this? Vrenn is going to cast a spell, his action. He was holding it until the dragon came within line of sight. It is a wisdom saving throw for the dragon, which she gets +7. Oh, you can see it if you want, Russ. You can see what I rolled just so you're not cheating.
Silas: A 1.
DM: That says 4, but nice try. Uh, he rolled a 4 plus 7, so he only got an 11. So as the dragon is running across this clearing, you see Vrenn pouring all of his magical energy into a spell, and he literally boxes in the dragon with a Hold Monster spell, and the dragon cannot move.
Guntrah: What's his, uh, status?
Silas: It was 4.
Silas: I looked at it, it was 18.
DM: Oh well, that must have shifted when I rolled over. I would have showed it to you if it was Yeah, so it would have been anticlimactic, right?
Guntrah: What's that status then?
DM: Uh, so yeah, let me go read that.
Tavian: Uh, the whole person is paralyzed, basically.
DM: Hold Monster. Choose a creature you can see within range. It doesn't say size. Uh, the target must succeed on a Wisdom saving throw or have the paralyzed condition for the duration. At the end of each of his turns, repeats the save, ending the spell, um, itself on a success.
Guntrah: Paralyzed is—
DM: So it is paralyzed for the next—
Guntrah: Advantage attacks? And crits.
DM: Um, it's crits. Melee crits, not ranged crits.
Tito: Automatic fails on saving throws.
Silas: Wait, what?
DM: Uh, I don't— I have to read. I think it's only dex saving throws.
Silas: But wait, which one is paralyzed?
DM: The dragon's paralyzed. Oh, friend did Hold Monster, cast it at a 5th level, and locked him in place.
Silas: I see.
DM: Yeah, let me mark that.
Guntrah: Mechanical effects: you cannot take actions, bonus actions, reactions. You can't move. You're You're silent, you can't speak. Failed saving throws, you automatically fail Strength and Dex saves. Oh, advantage attack rolls against you— attack rolls against you have advantage, any attack roll. Automatic criticals.
DM: Um, so we—
Guntrah: uh, I'm sorry, any attack that hits you is automatically critical if the attacker's within 5 feet of you, right?
DM: Yeah, melee crits.
Guntrah: So basically auto crits right now, auto advantage.
DM: So it is in the middle of the clearing. So it is— you're what, 40-ish feet into the woods at this point? Vrenn is at the edge of the woods.
Guntrah: I'm straight up.
DM: You're straight up from the edge of the woods? You didn't go in at all?
Guntrah: No, I just went up because I go over the trees first.
Silas: Okay.
DM: And Ollie would have probably kept pace with them per your instructions to protect them. So if you want to roll initiative and go back and fight it—
Silas: I do.
DM: That we got to decide that now if that's what you're doing.
Silas: Yep.
Tito: I am. I mean, they don't have to.
Guntrah: If I see others go, I will fight. If I don't, then I will not fight.
Tito: Yeah, I'm turning around.
DM: So you guys might want to do like a party decision.
Silas: I—
Guntrah: that's my thing. If they go, I go. Yeah, because I was already willing to go sacrifice and take a risk to move.
Tito: So if— if I see Wrenn, you know.
Tavian: Yeah, just cinematically, we hear a lumbering dragon through the clearing and all of a sudden stops. Probably gonna take a look.
DM: And you see Vrenn straining, like holding this dragon in place.
Tavian: Yeah, which understandably, that can break at any moment, but now's our chance if we ever had one.
Silas: Yep.
DM: I don't want to kill everybody, I'm just putting that on the table.
Tito: Oh, we're staying and fighting.
Tavian: This sounds like a glorious moment.
Silas: Force all to die.
Tito: Well, how else is he gonna get another glyph on a sword?
Guntrah: Well, yeah, all right, if you guys go, I go.
Tito: Okay, let's roll initiative.
Guntrah: Oh, what are we talking, like 4 minutes?
Tavian: This is a mistake.
Silas: I'm already half— I'm almost dead already.
DM: I'm half dead too, but Vrenn's 2/3 dead.
Guntrah: I'm full up almost.
Silas: Yeah, well, I mean, I'm probably gonna be dead in like 1 or 2 turns.
Guntrah: Look, so pony this shit.
Silas: That's all you have to realize.
Guntrah: It's our time to pony him.
Silas: He's gonna probably break out of it the next turn because he's just gonna roll again. Yeah, he's gonna be out of it. So we have one.
Tavian: Then you cast Invisible on us.
Silas: We have one. Yeah, but he'll still like shoot something at it, you know.
Tito: If he has 300 or less hit points, we're gonna mark him.
DM: 300 in one turn?
Silas: We're not gonna beat him.
Guntrah: Auto crits, dude.
Tito: Yeah, it's auto crits. Also, we're not gonna—
Silas: we're gonna turn everyone.
Guntrah: If you have the debuffs, you debuff them.
DM: Now's the time.
Silas: Yeah.
Guntrah: You got it, because he's got disadvantage. So if you can throw down webs, you can throw down all this other shit that he has to take turn after turn to break out of. That's what you do.
DM: All right, give me some space to set something up and you guys can roll.
Guntrah: Oh shit, let's do it!
Silas: Hell yeah!
DM: This is why I buy things to be prepared in case you do stupid shit. Part of me— yeah, part of me said, why would you buy the green dragon? They're not dumb enough to fight the green dragon. We're not gonna—
Silas: we're gonna do like a little bit of damage and then he's probably gonna break free and just kill us.
Tito: We'll do 150, right?
Guntrah: I mean, it's not an ancient though.
Silas: If I—
DM: if I had to— I mean, I'm not telling you what kind he is. 40 hit points.
Guntrah: Well, you can tell by the looks, right?
Silas: I mean, 40 hit points, he could do that damage.
DM: He's fucking large. He's gigantic and he's gonna kill me.
Guntrah: All right, but you know the difference between an adult or ancient? I know.
Tito: Straight up.
Guntrah: I think most people do it at school.
Silas: Yeah, really?
DM: Ancients are huge. How does that lesson go? How does the teacher convince everybody how to know the size and age of the green dragon?
Silas: Keep running.
Guntrah: Well, it's by size primarily, right? Ancients are massive versus—
Tavian: Hogwarts, there was an animal teacher.
DM: Uh, there is no hag. Did he do whole monsters? I would think he just told monster.
Tito: Yeah.
Silas: Okay, I got that too, but—
DM: Oh, you got that?
Guntrah: Stack it then.
DM: Yeah, we'll do that after he breaks free. It's not working here, right?
Tito: It's a wisdom saving throw though. He has +7 to wisdom saving throws, so we'll make him dumb. I don't know.
Silas: Yeah, I can use—
Silas: oh yeah, yeah, because mine's only 17, so disadvantage. I mean, if he gets—
DM: so it's like a 50/50 almost.
Guntrah: Boys, we just gotta hit him hard and fast. Anything you can do to restrain him? Take it down. We debuff while we're there.
Tito: We really need your web is what we need.
Guntrah: What do you think's coming, dude?
DM: I can't believe you guys are doing this. All right, glory.
Guntrah: Remember, spread out so cone can only hit a few of us.
DM: Yeah, I was gonna say, but who's got minis? You've got a mini. I wasn't gonna get out a map because this is just a circle. Yeah, that's why I'm like basically in a I don't plan on being anywhere close to him anyway, so... Um, I can.
Silas: I have—
Tito: I've got—
Silas: actually, you know what, let me use this for the first time.
Tito: I've never used this before.
Guntrah: Boy, this is when you really want a cleric with like Mass Heal Wounds or something.
Tito: Plus, if we get a party wipe, we have a backup campaign. We have the fucks. We can just go right back to fucks. Fuck fail.
DM: All right, this is the clearing now.
Silas: I don't want to be that close to him.
DM: Well, yeah, I'm just putting the characters on there. What characters do I need to get out?
Silas: Yeah, yours? No, I don't.
Guntrah: I need my character.
DM: All right, here's—
Tavian: I like unpacked my whole backpack and repacked it.
Tito: This is your character, Russ?
Tavian: I got my case of minis.
Tito: Gotcha. So you're like— I was like right here, and then Ben was all the way back behind you.
Guntrah: All right, everyone, before we get too frantic, look at your best fucking moves.
Tito: I already know what I'm doing. I got everything planned out.
DM: All right, we'll say this is Vrenn. Uh, this is a paladin-looking dude.
Tavian: Perfect.
Tito: You were behind— you had the most movement speed, so you're gonna be the first.
DM: Um, all right, actually, no, this is a better Vrenn because that's actually a drow. So we'll do the other one. Oh, you already have your own though.
Silas: Yeah.
Tavian: Uh, yeah, so that's—
Silas: we don't—
DM: this is extra then, right?
Tavian: Tito, Tavian, Silas. We need a gun.
DM: So we need a flying gun and an artificer. Well, I don't have a flying or artificer, so let's see what I can get.
Tito: We can use a dice for the BBEG.
DM: I have a small metal dude, I just don't know where I put him.
Tavian: Mind if I take a puff of the, uh, thanks, sir.
Silas: That—
Tito: you have to hit it for like 5 seconds. I'm not lying.
DM: Just for inspiration, Miles, you can just be Warlin for this fight.
Tito: Warlin!
DM: Um, okay, so now I just need the little metal dude, right?
Guntrah: Okay, what— yours is a wisdom save, right?
Tavian: I think so.
Silas: Yeah.
Guntrah: Okay, I'm going to Michigan in a week and a half. Then I, I'm gonna cast Web on this shit.
Tito: I'll let you know. Where are you going?
Tavian: Not this Friday, but next Friday. Just whatever the closest.
DM: Well, what do you mean?
Silas: Like, what's the wisdom?
Guntrah: Your saving throw to get out of— or, well, what's the saving throw to get out of the whole monster?
Silas: Oh, well, if I do that one, it's wisdom.
Tito: Yeah, right. It's 17 every turn.
Guntrah: Well, if he cast it, I don't know what Wrenn cast, but Wrenn casted it. So a success saving throw—
DM: there's a V in his name, by the way.
Tavian: Wrenn.
Guntrah: So basically though, if you cast the same spell, the same saving throw will save it from both, correct? Can you stack both monsters?
Tito: Would you have to make that saving throw twice?
DM: Uh, no, because it's a status-based— well, I would say no, but I don't, I don't know the actual rule.
Silas: Right, because it's like, it's like I could try to do a bunch of damage to him too while he's being held.
Guntrah: Well, that's my thing, is like, if your whole monster is a stack so where he has to break Vrenn's, then yours, that's great. But if he can break both at one time, that's not great.
DM: That's gonna be Ollie because I can't find my other little metal dude.
Tavian: This is the smallest base I can find for a flyer.
DM: All right, uh, okay, so he's in the— we'll say, um, this is the edge. It's 50 feet, right? How far is that? 5, 10, 40. So we'll say this is the center of the clearing and you guys are just at the edge. Oh, Vrenn is at the edge. You're like right there-ish.
Silas: Ow.
DM: Uh, Ollie, yeah, you guys are all back here because you guys had retreated, right?
Tito: Yep.
Guntrah: God damn it.
DM: Yeah, something like that.
Guntrah: Jesus.
Tito: We know he's flying there.
DM: Yeah, yeah, I don't have a riser, so Yeah, you want to 3D print some risers for me?
Guntrah: I don't have my printer. Oh, you got rid of it?
DM: No, I, I gave it back.
Tavian: Oh, oh yeah, that's right.
Guntrah: All right, my nephew has my printers now.
Tito: Oh, gotcha.
DM: But yeah, I need some 3D printed risers for, for flying creatures, uh, some mediums and some larges.
Tito: All right, initiative?
DM: Yes, uh, I, well, I need to set the battle up online.
Tito: I rolled an 18.
Silas: I don't like this.
Guntrah: Come on, Ross, let's do it. What do you got? You got some big damage moves?
Silas: Yeah.
Guntrah: We need the biggest damage moves you got.
Silas: All right, I'll do my biggest one.
Guntrah: Remember, after I cast Web, no fire.
Tito: Oh, I was gonna cast a Fireball. It's Dex save.
Guntrah: It's gonna be right, crit, but like it'll burn webs away.
Tito: But the webs do damage.
Guntrah: But I could always hold my turn until after you guys.
Tito: Yeah, I mean Well, I'll see. We'll, we'll see what initiative does.
Guntrah: I could also reduce his size being small.
Tito: Would that reduce his stats?
Guntrah: No, we can stomp him. I think we got this, boys.
Tito: See, like, if I cast Tasha's Hideous Laughter on it, would that stack against his?
Guntrah: I think the stacking would be the opposite saving throws because you only do one saving throw. Saving throw per turn. So if you had a saving throw, it's not Wisdom. I had a saving throw, it's not that. You can stack all these debuffs.
Tito: All my fucking saving throws are Wisdom saving throws. Hold Person, Phantasmal Killer.
DM: You don't have any Dex?
Silas: Fireball.
Guntrah: What I meant, some of the ensnares, like, so mine, Web, is Dex.
Tito: Only thing I have is—
Tavian: I'm gonna pick up some risers on Amazon.
DM: Oh, $16. Yeah, I, I think they're overpriced. That's why I haven't ordered them yet.
Tito: My 6th level Fireball is 11d6, so average damage 66, so 33, but crit, so 66, so full.
Guntrah: Or if he fails, you roll super high.
Tito: Yeah, because fails double dice, so that's 22d6.
Guntrah: All right, all we got to do is maybe tops 400 damage, to the lower end maybe 250.
Tito: Yeah, that's what I was, I was thinking 300. From what my— I've been watching in my Dragon League.
Guntrah: So remember to fan out, fan out, spread out.
Tito: That's the first thing I'm gonna shout.
Guntrah: You just gotta land these crit moves on Okay, almost ready here.
Tito: Rest of the senators.
Silas: It's like we're already half dead, that's why I'm like—
DM: Yeah, I have 29 hit points.
Guntrah: I got 91.
Silas: I mean, if I was— if we were all at full health, I would still think it was crazy, but—
Tavian: Oh, you didn't get hit.
Silas: How many?
Guntrah: No, I did.
DM: Oh well, that's because you all passed the saving throw. If anybody had failed, you would have been dead. He would have been dead. He would have almost been dead. Yeah, he would have. Wrenn would have been dead.
Guntrah: Yeah, my move is I healed myself as much as I could. I'm gonna take to the sky. I'm gonna cast Haste on my next turn. I was gonna fly away from you guys.
Tito: It's nobody's fault. He must just be eavesdropping on us like a little sneaky little dude.
DM: He's a green dragon. That's what they do. They're deceptive creatures. Highly intelligent, deceptive creatures.
Guntrah: If I were to, if I were to fly up, cast Haste, but he's a dragon.
DM: Dragons do You would have a sense of honor. Yeah, so I had, had it been by, you know, by the book, he might, he might have honored me. He still would have looked for loopholes. That's what dragons do.
Guntrah: But oh yeah, and eventually you get wore down and I just eventually landed and like figured that out.
Tito: Yeah, that was my plan.
DM: Okay, I think I'm ready for initiatives now.
Tito: Okay, I'll go to 18.
DM: 18 for Tito.
Silas: 11.
Tito: 11 for Tavian.
Guntrah: 7.
Silas: Total?
Guntrah: Total.
DM: 7 for Gun. Oh, I need to roll for Vrenn. He gets a +6.
Tavian: Jeez, damn.
DM: Total of 20.
Silas: I have 15.
Guntrah: Come on, guys, just play smart.
Tavian: You need to help him not break.
DM: I don't know why he gets a +6. That doesn't make any sense to me. He has something for that. Yeah, because he's not super powerful, like ability stats-wise.
Tavian: No, that has to do with him being like in the Abyss or something.
DM: I, I don't think so. All right, boys, I don't think I have Silas's yet.
Silas: 15. 15.
DM: Okay, all right, so let me hit start combat. We have all the miniatures out there. 6 plus the dragon.
Tito: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 plus the dragon. Yep.
Silas: Okay, perfect.
DM: Uh, all right, uh, Vrenn's up first. Uh, he's concentrating on Hold Monster, so—
Guntrah: He's gotta have a power move, some sort.
DM: He's concentrating on Hold Monster, so—
Guntrah: Yeah, but you still cast spells that are not concentration.
DM: Uh, you're right, you're right. I'm seeing what he can do.
Guntrah: His damage moves auto.
DM: Um, that's something that doesn't require concentration.
Guntrah: Remember, you gotta be in 5 feet to get the auto crit, so your fireballs aren't auto critting unless you're within 5 feet, which is gonna hit you probably.
DM: Um, did you say that, uh, that's not what you said?
Tito: Read it again.
Guntrah: No, it's exactly what I said.
DM: Constitution saving throws are not auto fails, are they? Dex and strength are all dex and strength.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Uh, yeah, so that's not gonna work.
Guntrah: So basically, automatic criticals— any attack that hits you is automatic critical if the attacker's within 5 feet of you. Yeah, everyone gets advantage on attack rolls. Saves that are failed saves— you automatically fail Strength and Dex saves, which means my web's gonna auto. Yeah, um, I got an idea for—
DM: You cannot move or speak.
Guntrah: You cannot take any actions.
Tavian: Okay, so what if Wrenn prepared a spell, Hold Monster? Triggered on if monster breaks free.
DM: That's actually— that's probably the smartest thing to do. I was looking to see if he could actually do damage.
Guntrah: It actually really is a clever thing to do. Yeah, granted he has to fail again, which is rare.
DM: And I, I would probably argue that it's not fair to prepare a concentration spell for another concentration spell failing.
Guntrah: But I don't think in the rules—
Tavian: It's not it failing, it's him breaking free.
DM: Which is the failure of the spell to contain. Um, yeah, I, I like the idea. I think it's brilliant. I think it's bending the rules a little bit in a favorable way. Yeah, um, it's a meta recommendation, right? Right, yeah. But I do like it. No, my character yells this.
Silas: No, he's not smart enough for that.
Guntrah: But I mean, if he has a high damage spell, that's fucking sick too.
DM: Yeah, yeah. I, I think he's— I think he's actually— he doesn't know what your guys' I think his, his go-to in this situation is to try to create distance, so he's just going to try to Thunderwave him away and push him back.
Tito: Oof, did that break his—
DM: Unfortunately, it's a cons— it's a Constitution saving throw though.
Guntrah: Vrenn would know his spells.
DM: Just do whatever he would do. Okay, fine, Chromatic Orb. We'll do a Chromatic Orb. Um, we'll say he probably would assume fire is probably okay, so he'll do a fiery Chromatic Orb. And that's a +10 to hit. Uh, let's see, what level is he casting it at?
Guntrah: +10 to hit with advantage?
Tavian: Yes.
Guntrah: At the highest level he has, of course.
DM: He's not gonna burn his 7th level. That's his ticket out. 6th level then. Uh, all right, we'll go with the 6th level then.
Tito: Yeah, nice work.
Tavian: Uh, persuasion.
DM: That's a 20.
Guntrah: That's one, but it's advantaged. It's advantaged.
Tito: You're right. Nat 20.
Silas: Oh my gosh.
Tito: 2 nat 1s.
DM: 2 nat 1s.
Tavian: Oh my gosh.
DM: Yeah, the first one wasn't even—
Silas: look.
DM: Okay, so yeah, he throws a chromatic orb, but he's so focused on concentrating to hold the monster that he just blows it and throws the orb into the trees behind him and misses completely and wasted a 6th-level spell. Jesus Christ, double nat 1s. That's 1 in 400.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Wow, wow. Okay, that was fucked up. Um, Tito, you're up. Okay, I'm gonna yell, spread out!
Tito: I'm gonna cast Fireball at 6th level. It is a Dex saving throw, so it's Automatic fail, so it's 11d6 fire damage.
DM: Okay, roll it.
Guntrah: Because usually it's 6d6, right? Or no, you're upcasting it, right?
Tito: Yeah, I'm upcasting it at a 6th level.
DM: What's the normal damage?
Tito: That's the normal damage.
DM: 11d6.
Silas: Okay. Yeah.
Tavian: Do I get extra damage?
Guntrah: You get extra dice the higher level you cast it.
Tito: Well, yeah, that's, that's what it says.
DM: Yeah, yeah, I was thinking something else.
Silas: Yeah, go ahead.
Tito: Nice. 11, 12. 18, 22, 25, 29.
DM: Uh, just 3 of them.
Tito: 39, 40, 41 fire damage.
Guntrah: Do you add anything to that for your spellcasting?
Tito: Plus 6.
Guntrah: So 56, 55?
DM: No, not for— you don't do that first.
Tito: Oh no, no, it's 11d6. It's just 11d6. Yeah, so 4.
Guntrah: Oh, because the saving throw, right?
DM: It was 40. 41 was the total.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: All right.
Guntrah: How's he looking?
Tito: If 300, that's a 6th of his health. If he's got 300, close to it.
Tavian: Let me see if he—
DM: I don't think he has resistance to fire.
Tito: Not a green dragon. They're all in school. Yeah, probably resistant to poison.
Silas: He's freaking—
Tavian: he's not.
DM: Oh, and then He's not flying yet. Okay, so he took 3— uh, what was it, 40, 41 damage?
Tito: Yep. And then I'm gonna move 45 feet. 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35, 40.
DM: It's at this point, it's not really that important how far away out of the picture you are.
Tavian: I think, I think he's just making sure cone-wise.
Guntrah: Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, avoiding cones.
DM: Got it. All right, that's, that's it. Yeah, Silas, you are up.
Silas: I am already?
DM: All right, so you got a 15, right, in your initiative?
Guntrah: So yeah, did we determine the whole monster stacking stuff?
Tavian: He didn't do that.
DM: Uh, he didn't do it, but he could do—
Guntrah: is what you're saying? He could do it, and if it stacks, raised to beat 2 saves. So I guess it wastes 2 turns saving. That's important otherwise. If it doesn't stack, then it's just one save for both. Yeah, there's one save for both, then it's like, what's the point?
DM: Um, D&D Beyond says no, 2 characters cannot stack the paralyzed effect of multiple Hold Monster spells on the same creature. And because it's D&D Beyond, I'm treating it as canon.
Tavian: Oh yeah, no, I would say Yeah, can you stack?
DM: But I'm wondering, 2 different pair of spells, you know, that's the point, is a status is a status. It's like you can't get double poisoned.
Guntrah: It's the saving throw is what— so like, for example, they're both the same wisdom save, so if he beats one, he beats both, right? Whereas if I do one with a dex save, he can't just wisdom save out of the dex save.
DM: And I will say, I think your next question, Ben, I would say the same character can't queue up the same spell, but I would say a different character absolutely could. So if, if Russ— sorry, if, uh, Silas wants to hold, hold his action and cast Hold Monster when the previous Hold Monster ends, or on evidence of him breaking the spell, then yes, he could try, he could do that. I 100% support that.
Tavian: Oh nice.
Guntrah: Okay, so you can either queue that up so if he breaks out of the current one you could recast and try to hold him again, or you try to do damage.
Tito: So I can give somebody—
DM: the downside to that, I just want to make it clear, is that if he doesn't break this hold monster, you essentially lose your turn. Yeah, you're not doing anything.
Silas: I'm just gonna do so, I guess.
Tavian: Okay, I mean, that's like the safe play if you're worried about health and staying alive.
Tito: So I have a question just in case that were to ever come up. So with my Bardic Inspiration, I have, um, Unsettling Words, which Which allows me to use that Bardic Inspiration to take 1d10 from a saving throw from the creature. Could I give that?
Guntrah: Oh, Bart, could I—
DM: is it a reaction? What is it? Uh, Unsettling Words.
Tito: It says a bonus action.
DM: Oh, then I would say you have to do it ahead of time so that on his next saving throw attempt.
Tavian: Yeah, I completely forgot.
Guntrah: You do have a bonus action, but like to hold a spell Requires concentration.
DM: You're right, you're absolutely right.
Tavian: I just asked chat, that's something.
DM: Casting it, break the original, right? Yeah, your new concentration is just— which makes sense. Yeah, yeah, yeah, right. It puts into technical words what I was trying to say.
Guntrah: If you cast it on them and it gives them the negative Bardic—
DM: What happened to my dragon?
Tavian: Yeah, it does.
DM: It took me like 5 minutes to get him on that stand.
Tavian: Oh, sorry, I put him down because it's not—
Silas: for instance, if you cast it I just put it right here.
Tito: Yeah, and then shout to the group and have saving throws.
DM: Yeah, no one else casting.
Guntrah: Next time he has the whole monster saving throw, he'll have negative bardic to it.
Tito: You can't hear me though. Are you gonna cast your web? Is that a saving throw?
DM: Yeah, let's try to keep the metagaming.
Tavian: Yeah, we're doing so much meta.
Guntrah: Yeah, but he doesn't, he doesn't know how it works mechanically.
Tito: No, if I can't pat— if I can't give that specific thing to somebody else that I'm not Okay, because you give it to the dragon, right? I would give it.
DM: So, Silas, what are you doing?
Silas: So I cast Disintegrate.
DM: That's a powerful spell. And what does it do?
Silas: It's— he has to do a Wisdom or Dexterity saving throw.
DM: She automatically fails.
Tito: 10d6 plus 40.
DM: That's a very powerful spell.
Guntrah: Yeah, Disintegrate's one of the strongest ones. All right, Kenzie, 6 plus 40.
Silas: 31.
Guntrah: So 71 damage. Just a big old green energy beam.
Tavian: What does this look like? Like, what is the spell?
Guntrah: That's a green energy beam, right?
Silas: Uh, yeah, it's, uh, it says a thin green ray springs from your pointing finger to a target that you can see within range.
DM: Is it force damage?
Tito: It's psychic damage, fire damage, green ray damage. Green ray damage.
Tavian: It's disintegration damage.
Tito: That's 112 damage right there.
Tavian: That doesn't really It'll, it'll say what kind of damage.
Silas: Where does it say it?
Tavian: I think it usually says right after the amount of die you roll.
Tito: Force damage.
DM: 10d6 force damage. Force damage.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Oh yeah, just checking. All right, um, looks a little, a little bit wounded. Go for the win! 2 moves and a little wounded.
Guntrah: I like that.
Tavian: Okay, who's next?
DM: Wait, do you want his turn?
Silas: Oh, you want to move?
Tito: I said spread out before we, uh—
Silas: Yeah, I'll just move over a little bit.
Guntrah: Like, think about cone expands as you go further. Yeah, so think about that.
Tavian: But you don't want to put yourself so far away you can't hit it with whatever you got next.
Guntrah: Oh, and moving forward means the cone's smaller.
Tito: So yeah, so you'll be able to—
Tavian: Yeah, like moving over here.
Silas: Oh, I see.
Silas: So what was that right here?
Silas: This would be 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30. Yep.
Tavian: Oh, you probably go 40. You were close enough to me. Oh, oh yeah, that just gives you an extra 10.
Silas: So we'll just go over here somewhere, maybe like here.
DM: Okay, and then this turn, uh, yes, it's his turn, and I think it's the end of his turn that he makes the saving throw.
Tito: Yeah, he can't do anything on this turn. He can't do any actions or anything.
DM: Yeah, at the end of each of his turns.
Tavian: Okay, but he can't speak or do anything.
Tito: I wonder how that works with his legendary actions.
Guntrah: He would have already done legendary actions.
Tito: Well, I know he hasn't, so—
Guntrah: Well, it happens after your turn, player's turn.
DM: Yeah, 16 plus 6— or sorry, plus 7, so 23. So he breaks the spell. You did not queue up a new one, right?
Tavian: No.
DM: So that's his whole turn, but he is no longer held.
Tito: Okay, I do have that.
DM: Hold on, hold on, hold on.
Tito: Um, or I don't actually. I have Hold Person.
Tavian: Yeah, Hold Person is completely different. It has to be a bipedal—
DM: like, yeah, it doesn't work on a dragon.
Silas: Yep. Fuck.
Tito: Oh, but yeah, Silas is right after me though, so I can, I can cast that thing.
DM: Um, okay, so I need, um, okay, I need everybody who's touching the woods. So that would be— he's at the edge, he's going to get affected. He's flying, so he's unaffected. And everybody else is in the woods in some Capacity, right?
Tito: Yep.
DM: So you're the— so you're the only one that doesn't have to make a Dexterity saving throw.
Guntrah: Remember, +3 if you're in—
Tavian: Yeah, no one's close enough to me now.
DM: Uh, yes, that is correct.
Silas: Right. Fuck.
DM: Where's Ollie, by the way?
Guntrah: Ollie's right there.
Tavian: There. But just—
DM: oh, because he hasn't gone yet. Because you haven't gone yet, right?
Silas: Okay.
Tito: Is this a lair action?
DM: It's not a spell, it's not a magical—
Tavian: I'm using my Heroic Inspiration.
Silas: Okay.
Tito: On the reroll because I rolled a 3.
DM: Here's Bren's dexterity saving throw. Plus 1. Oh, they rolled a 17, so that's plus 1, 18.
Tito: I'm just gonna go ahead and use a luck point on this and roll with advantage.
Guntrah: You roll after the fact.
Tito: Oh, okay.
DM: I didn't know that.
Guntrah: Luck is—
DM: yeah, no, you roll and if you don't like the result, use luck.
Silas: What are we supposed to roll?
DM: Dexterity saving throw.
Silas: Me too, or do you say—
DM: Yes, you too.
Tito: Okay, I am gonna use Luck.
Silas: But who, who was it?
Silas: Who— what are we up against?
DM: So thematically or narratively, what's happening is the vines are attacking you. The thorn bushes that are in the woods are reaching up, trying to restrain and hit you with their thorns.
Silas: So is everybody in the woods?
Tavian: Yes, everyone except for Gun.
Silas: Oh, because he's in the—
DM: yeah, because he's flipping.
Tito: Yeah. Okay, so I'm going to use a luck point and I'm going to use a Bardic Inspiration.
DM: So also, you can burn luck points indefinitely and don't use Bardic unless you don't like the result or unless you need to.
Silas: It's a Dexterity thing.
DM: So you get your own bonus, but you don't get their bonuses.
Guntrah: What's the route?
Silas: 3.
DM: Was it a nat 1?
Silas: No, it was a 2.
Tito: All right, I'm good with that. So I use 2 luck Luck points.
DM: Plus the one earlier?
Tito: Plus the one earlier.
DM: So you've used 3 out of your 4?
Tito: I've used 3 out of my 4. And I already used 2.
DM: So what was your result after the second luck point use?
Tito: 20.
DM: Natural or dirty?
Tito: Dirty.
DM: It doesn't matter anyway. Okay, what was yours?
Tavian: 13.
DM: 13. Okay, so the— let's see, you, um, take 4 damage, Christian, but you are not restrained.
Silas: Thank God.
DM: Ben, Russ, you both take 9 damage and you are restrained. Uh, these poison vines reach up and wrap around your legs and kind of stab you a little bit in the process. And then Vrenn also takes 4 and is not restrained.
Silas: So since this thing has started Or just since we first took damage, has it been 10 minutes?
Tito: No, it's been 6 seconds.
Silas: It's been—
DM: yeah, it's been 1 round, so like 6 seconds, right?
Guntrah: 1 minute is 10 rounds.
Silas: Well, I mean, it wasn't around when we weren't actually fighting around yet when he got the poison.
DM: The poison? Yes, since the poison breath happened, it's been like less than 1 minute.
Silas: I had that rain, so every 10 minutes I get—
DM: yeah, that's good. The combat's gonna be well over by the time that kicks in.
Silas: Wow.
DM: Because literally each round of play, which is everybody gets a turn, is 6 seconds.
Tito: Okay, so 5, 6 rounds is 1 minute.
DM: 10 rounds is 1 minute.
Tito: Yeah, 10 rounds is 1 minute.
DM: In 10 rounds, battle will be over. Yeah, because we're all dead.
Guntrah: 60 rounds is 10 minutes.
DM: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, um, let's see. So that was the dragon's turn, and then did somebody else go after Uh, no, it is you and Ollie. They get to go next.
Guntrah: Uh, let's move Ollie.
DM: Oh, I didn't, I didn't roll for Ollie. Do me a dex saving throw for Ollie.
Guntrah: Does he have the same shit as me? I don't really know. I don't know anything.
DM: I, I have to trust you to do that part. I can't manage that.
Tavian: Um, usually they have their own, but I don't know how that appears.
DM: A defender should have a steel The defender should have its own stats. He's not going to get your bonuses.
Tito: 8.
DM: Okay, yeah, so he's— he also takes 9 damage and he is locked in place, restrained. Uh, in the restrain, um, zero speed, there's advantage on attacks against us.
Guntrah: It's probably end of the turn, a break or save, and I think disadvantage on Dex.
DM: Uh, 0 speed, attacks against you have advantage, uh, your attacks at disadvantage, and dex saving throws are also at disadvantage.
Silas: Attacks are disadvantageous?
Guntrah: He can't move anyways.
DM: Right. Um, and then—
Tavian: That's the same for spell attacks?
Guntrah: But he doesn't have spell attacks, the defender.
DM: Well, he's talking about himself.
Tavian: I'm talking about everyone else who's restrained.
DM: He's concerned about himself.
Silas: Yeah.
Tavian: I don't care about Ollie.
DM: Uh, yeah, so you can use your action to break free. So it takes your action to pull yourself free.
Guntrah: Does +3 help on that, by the way, or no?
Silas: No.
Tavian: I am hasted, so I have an extra action.
Guntrah: Well, it's Ollie's turn, so he's gonna try to break free on his turn.
DM: Uh, is he— he's going before you?
Tito: Yes.
Guntrah: Okay, we'll go the same turn.
DM: I would say with this, there's There's no strength check required. It's just you sacrifice your action, you pull yourself free.
Guntrah: Pulls himself free. He's going to move up 30 feet.
Silas: Okay.
Guntrah: Can someone move him, please?
Tito: He's gonna move up 30 feet?
DM: Yeah.
Silas: Yeah.
Tito: 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30.
Guntrah: Um, he's going to Bonus action dash up to the dragon.
DM: He has a bonus action dash? Uh, I mean, it's not normal.
Guntrah: It doesn't say it doesn't.
DM: If it doesn't say he does, then he doesn't.
Guntrah: Oh, so he doesn't get bonus action?
DM: Bonus action dash is reserved for rogues and other specific things.
Guntrah: And that's what he does. All right, and then I'm going This is hard. Should I web him?
Tito: Yeah, we can't have him coming after us.
Guntrah: All right, I'm gonna cast Web. All right, what's the—
DM: it's a saving throw?
Guntrah: It's a saving throw.
DM: What kind?
Guntrah: It's a, uh, a Dex.
DM: Uh, 24.
Guntrah: Saves. Um, I'm gonna use my movement to fly up and around, maybe like this corner.
DM: Okay, up in the air?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: How high are you?
Guntrah: Um, probably a little bit higher, so probably like 45 feet.
DM: So last, last turn you did 30 straight up, right?
Silas: Mm-hmm.
DM: And this turn you went—
Guntrah: I moved just a little this way and some So like 15 up and—
DM: okay, yeah, we'll see. That's fine. Yeah, 15 up, 45 up in the air.
Tito: All right, uh, that's, that's what I got because, uh, come on, my friend, hold them again.
DM: Yeah, uh, I— okay, the way I, I didn't realize this, it gave Ollie his own initiative ahead of you and I just assumed that it was shared with him, but It wasn't. So technically, you should have went before Ollie and him. I need to fix Ollie's initiative so that it's the same as his. Okay, I made a mistake.
Silas: Sorry.
Guntrah: Okay, this is the end of my turn. Put +5 on top of all that, help Ollie.
DM: Say what?
Guntrah: So on his saving throw, right?
Silas: Uh-huh.
Guntrah: He had the, uh, +3 that got him to 12.
DM: 11. He had 8 plus 3 would have been 11.
Guntrah: Would have 5 health.
DM: That would have, yeah.
Tito: Can I do Flash of Genius?
DM: Not this late, no. Hey, we didn't move on! We did, it's his turn.
Tavian: All right, so, hmm, so I'm pretty far from him.
Tito: 45. Oh, you're trying to get dirty there. I'm trying to get in there, but I'm held right now.
Tavian: I have haste, but that—
Tito: then I couldn't do anything else. Break.
Guntrah: You get one action after haste.
Tavian: So haste gave me advantage on Dex. Completely forgot about that.
Silas: Goddamn.
Tavian: Uh, oh, I used my heroic inspiration.
DM: What is I think I'm trying to see if restrain can be magically— I don't know that it can be magically improved.
Tavian: Um, but yeah, actually, I don't have to use— I don't have to waste my attack because my— that actually, my haste action can be used to break the whole— like, and then use an object.
DM: Does haste specifically say it breaks free of restrain?
Guntrah: No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Tavian: But what it does is give me an extra Attack, dash, disengage, hide, or use an object, right? So if I could use my haste action, free action, to try to break free, then I have my normal action to like cast something.
DM: Oh, I see what you're saying. Okay, so use your action to cast haste.
Tavian: No, no, no, I'm already hasted.
DM: Oh, oh, that's right. Okay, you did that last turn. Yeah, so you're already hasted, so you already have my haste action.
Tavian: To try to break free, to use my normal action.
DM: Got it. So yeah, use one of your 2 actions essentially to break free.
Tavian: Yeah, they're not exactly equal though, because like the attack action option here, you can use your one weapon attack only.
DM: Oh yeah, that's fine. I can let— I'll say you can use that to break free.
Tavian: Yeah, yeah, perfect.
DM: All right, it's kind of like you're just cutting the vines with your sword.
Silas: Fuck.
DM: And you don't have to roll for that, you just— it happens. You sacrifice the action to do it.
Tavian: Yeah.
DM: Oh, you don't have to do like—
Tavian: Oh, okay. Throw or anything. All right. I was gonna say, that was like— oh, I was trying to do another dex save or something.
DM: No.
Tavian: All right, all right, so I broke free.
DM: So then I—
Tavian: then I'm free to cast, uh, my Guiding Bolt, which I'm gonna do at level 3. All right, so I need to see if I hit. Yes, that's, uh, 18 plus 7.
Silas: That's a hit.
Tavian: All right, so that's, so that's 5d6.
Silas: Nice.
Tavian: This is radiant damage. All right, a couple 5s, 4, and a couple 2s. 18.
DM: 18 damage.
Tito: 18 radiant damage.
DM: And then the next attack against him has advantage? That's—
Tito: yes.
Silas: Yeah.
Tavian: Okay, the next attack roll made against him before the end of my next turn.
DM: Any bonus action from you?
Tavian: Um, yeah, I will use a bonus action.
Tito: And you have the speed as well.
Guntrah: Yeah.
Tavian: All right, so I'm using that, using, um, Harness Divine Power as a bonus action, which just gives me a level 2 spell slot back.
Silas: And then I need to move.
Silas: Um, 45.
Tito: 45.
DM: Okay, so yeah, you're getting close. Okay, back to the top of the order now, and it's Vrenn's turn. Uh, Vrenn is going to shout What are you all doing?
Silas: Leave!
DM: And then he's gonna try to hold him again. Hold Monster again.
Guntrah: Come on, he can't cast it.
DM: Uh, well, let me see what he's got left.
Tito: He has that.
Guntrah: So, friends don't leave friends.
DM: Yeah, yeah, he has one— his final 5th-level spell slot to recast Hold Monster. He needs a, a good Wisdom saving throw failure from the dragon.
Tavian: Anyone help him?
DM: I'll roll it on the table just so you guys don't think I'm cheating. Uh, he actually— I'm not going to tell you what he needs, but I'll at least let you see the dice.
Tito: Wait, who's rolling for it?
Tavian: This is Vrenn to hold monster.
DM: This is the dragon rolling to prevent being held.
Tito: I can't, I can't. Not—
DM: oh, he's held! It was almost 19.
Tito: I could have given it to Russ. I could have done that thing, Unsettling Words, to him and let Russ have him roll disadvantaged. But I can't give it— if he was rolling an attack roll, I could have given it.
Tavian: No, don't you have something to do anti—
Tito: Yeah, but it's a bonus action.
Guntrah: Oh, okay.
Tito: Yeah, so I can cast— I could cast it after my turn and Russ be next and then do that same thing.
Guntrah: Don't worry, boys, I got something in my pocket.
Silas: But does this whole creature—
Guntrah: oh wait, I go after the freaking dragon. Damn it.
DM: So Vrenn is gonna move out of the woods so he doesn't get held again.
Tavian: Yeah, I'm no longer in the woods. He's not in the woods.
DM: Just you two are left in the woods now.
Tavian: Yeah.
Guntrah: Oh, if I could go before him, dude, I could hit him with my great axe. I could do auto crits 2 times with—
Tito: okay, whose turn is it?
Guntrah: Arcane Jolts, which would be a bunch of dice.
DM: It is your turn.
Tavian: Mine's okay.
Tito: Um, that's 150 feet. I'm gonna cast another Fireball at 5th level. That's 10d6, and it's a Dex saving throw, so that's an automatic.
Guntrah: That was 11d6 for 6th level.
Tito: I don't have—
Guntrah: oh, you burned it.
Tito: All right, I'm going to 5th level.
Silas: 10d6.
DM: You do another Fireball?
Silas: Yep.
DM: Okay, how close are you now? Not, not within Fireball range.
Tavian: You cast it.
DM: I don't know, I'm right here. Okay, um, where's he at?
Tito: 20-foot cone.
DM: Yeah, he— I would say— Oh, you're way over here. It's, it's not a cone, it's a sphere, right?
Tavian: It's a sphere.
DM: 20-foot radius or diameter?
Tito: 20-foot radius.
DM: Okay.
Tito: Centered on the point.
Tavian: Yeah, but that point could be like out here.
DM: I would say one of them has to be within range.
Tito: I'd cast it out where it hits Ollie then.
DM: Well, no, no, I was saying one of these 2. Ollie—
Silas: well, how—
DM: I don't know how far away Ollie is.
Tavian: No, why? I mean, couldn't it be like back here?
Tito: I mean, I have 100-foot radius.
DM: Uh, how far into the woods are you? Because you were at the edge— or no, you were further than the edge of the woods.
Tito: I was like 5 feet further, and I only mean—
DM: Well, no, you were like 30 feet further into the woods, and then you went that way, right?
Tito: Yeah.
DM: So you didn't go closer to him, so 30 feet.
Guntrah: Do it this way.
DM: 60 feet.
Tito: Yeah, I moved this way and this way. I mean, I did move a little bit closer.
Guntrah: He's 2 squares.
DM: Okay, I moved 2 squares up and then over that way. I'll— let's just do this by luck. Okay, you're trying to throw it behind the dragon to prevent hitting any— anybody else.
Tito: Okay, I'll do— I will— I can do that.
DM: So I will— I will say give me a 8 or better and you're successful at that. But if you roll 8 or— sorry, 9 or better, 8 or under, and you're gonna hit one of your choice, one of those 2. Either you miscast it that way and it hits him, or you miscast it this way and it hits him.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Because that's a difficult Fireball throw through 30 feet of thick foliage aiming behind a dragon. All right, so yeah, you're successful. You throw it behind the dragon. Roll your damage.
Silas: Fuck.
Tito: 5, 7, 9, 10, 20, 3, 4, 30 fire damage. 30 more, and then I am moving. As a bonus action, I will use a Bardic Inspiration and cast Unsettling Words.
DM: And which is what? Can you read the text again?
Tito: As a bonus action, you can expend 1 use of your Bardic Inspiration and choose 1 creature you can see within 60 feet.
DM: Okay, he's outside of 60 feet.
Tito: Well, I'll move 30 feet closer.
DM: Okay, move closer into the woods. Are you, uh, you're still technically Technically in the woods, just barely, I think.
Tito: 10, 15, 20.
DM: Or you're right on the edge.
Tito: I'll move there.
Silas: Yep.
Silas: Okay.
Tito: And 1d10, the creature must subtract the number rolled from the next saving throw it makes before the start of your next turn.
DM: Okay, the next one. You don't get to pick it, right? Yeah, it's the next one that hits it. The next saving throw.
Silas: Got it.
Tavian: So nice.
Guntrah: Him longer, assuming no one casts a saving throw spell, which if Russ has another Disintegrate up his sleeve, um, and it is Russell's turn.
Tito: Well, he only fails automatically on Dex and Strength, so Russ can cast whatever one he wants and it'll at least take— if he wants to cast a Wisdom or something, it'll give him -10 to that.
Silas: Except wait for his wisdom.
Tito: You can cast whatever you want and he has to take 1d10 away from it.
Guntrah: But he auto-fails strength and dex.
Tito: But he auto-fails strength.
DM: Okay, now that's metagaming. You don't know any of that, right? Do what you want to do.
Silas: But I was gonna— I was gonna do Fireball anyway, um, because I don't have another Disintegration. I was just— I got 6 left and that's all I have.
DM: All right, I'm gonna give you the same deal I gave him. Just roll a 9 or above on your d20.
Silas: But mine I can—
DM: Oh, you can sculpt it. Yeah, yeah, you're fine, you're fine, you can sculpt it.
Silas: So, um, okay, so it's— oh wait, but I said, yeah, Dex. Oh wait, you already failed. You said automatically.
DM: Yeah, it's auto-fail. Just do your damage. And he's still not bloodied, by the way. The dragon's still not bloodied. He doesn't look in bad shape yet. Uh, what level are you casting? Sorry, I'll wait till you're done counting.
Tito: So if he auto-fails that save, does that Bardic Inspiration hold on him?
DM: Um, that's a good question.
Tito: It's up to you. I mean, either way, I don't care.
Silas: So 35, which I have to take that away, points of damage.
DM: Okay, uh, sorry, what level was that Fireball?
Guntrah: 5th.
DM: 5th level.
Tito: Okay, 35.
Tavian: He's gotta have taken close to—
DM: he's officially bloody now. Like, he's starting to show some, some wounding.
Tito: Yeah, fuck yeah, he needs to.
Tavian: That's more than half.
Guntrah: Uh, About half. I don't know, depends on what you're going to call it.
Tito: Yeah, it's got to be close to 200 damage.
Tavian: Oh no, that description lines up with the—
DM: Well, I'm not using a textbook.
Tavian: Oh, okay.
DM: Green dragon.
Tito: Can you tell us how much damage we've done? I could count.
DM: Yeah, I can add that up for you. That's fair. Um, hold on, let me do some quick math. Yeah, Witness, uh, you've done 195 so far.
Silas: 200.
Tito: Yeah, he's got 300.
DM: If I had to guess, no.
Silas: So can I— I'm not sure how this one works, but you gave me that one pouch, you know, that has that, and one of the things it says was like, this is once per day when you cast a spell of 3 or lower that has a casting time of an action, you can cast it using a bonus action instead.
DM: Yeah.
Silas: Does that mean I can do like what I just did and then do a bonus action on the spell?
DM: Provided that the spell is level 1 or cantrip, because you can't double cast 2 spells traditionally. Oh, I don't, I don't remember exactly what the rules as written are. I think it's stricter than my rules, which I allow you to cast 2 spells, but as long as one of them is not higher than level 1.
Guntrah: Yeah, it's usually cantrip and spell.
DM: Yeah, yeah, usually it's cantrip and a spell, but even in your case, that cantrip could be an action as opposed to a bonus action.
Silas: Okay, wait, oh, you said level 1 or not level 1?
DM: I, I would say level 1's fine. Okay, you could cast a level 1 spell.
Silas: Okay, it won't do too much for me, but what is it? It just gives me— it's False Life. It gives me some temporary hit points, but since it's such a low one, it's only d4 plus 4. But still, that's something.
DM: May keep you alive.
Silas: Never know.
Silas: Is that 2?
Tito: So 6.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Uh, that was your action and your bonus action. Are you gonna move anywhere, like out of the woods?
Silas: Yeah, move out of the woods.
DM: So it's, it's a circular clearing, so you basically have to get in this circle. I would say you guys have to be a little closer because it's not that big of a circle. You're in the air, you can be wherever you want, but like, that's the— yeah, that's probably the edge of the circle right there.
Silas: So wait, what do I have to do?
DM: So you have to be within— let's see, within, within 15 or 20.
Tito: Let's see.
DM: Okay, so he's 50. He takes up a 10-foot by 10-foot circle. It's a 50-foot clearing, so 25 feet. So it's 15 feet between him and the edge of the clearing. So you have to be within 15 feet of him or you're going to be in the, in the woods.
Silas: Okay, so like—
DM: And honestly, the woods might be the safer choice if you're thinking about it.
Tito: Yeah, it was like real low damage.
Silas: Yeah, but if I— would this be out of the— would that be out of the woods, or is that still the woods?
DM: It's simple. Within 15 feet of him, you're in the woods. Outside of 15 feet of him, just count 3 squares. 3 squares from him. No, but his 4 legs.
Tavian: Yeah, this is his spot.
DM: That's the dragon right there.
Silas: Oh, I thought you were saying—
DM: So we'll treat it as a square. 3 squares around him is the clearing. So like, this is the edge of the clearing. This is the absolute corner of the clearing. Uh, this is the edge of the clearing. That's where you've got to be there.
Silas: So I'm technically maybe in it, or I have to be up here?
DM: Uh, I'm treating it like a box. It's not really a box, but that's fine.
Tito: You can be there.
DM: That's out of the— or yeah, that's in the clearing, out of the woods.
Silas: Okay.
DM: It's hard to get in there. It's because it's got a notch on it. You gotta rotate it to fit.
Tavian: Yeah, I see the notch.
DM: And even then it's hard to push in there, and I don't want to break it, so I'm always gentle.
Tavian: Okay.
Silas: Oh boy.
Guntrah: Who's next?
DM: Uh, the end of his turn. The dragon breaks free of the hold again, but it is the end of his turn. And everybody's out of the woods now?
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Okay, so there's no more vine lashings. Sorry, hold on. Uh, Okay, legendary action, the dragon's gonna whip his tail around and let's see, well, I guess everybody but you is within 15 feet of him. That's the range of his tail attack. So we're gonna do eeny meeny miny moe. We'll say 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and then nope. Not a 6, I reroll.
Tito: 6, I reroll.
Silas: 4.
DM: 1, 2, 3, 4. Tavian, you get a tail attack.
Tavian: I've got +2 AC because I'm still hasted.
DM: Okay, it is a 16 plus 11, 27 to hit. I don't think there's any stopping that.
Guntrah: No.
DM: Okay, uh, that's gonna be Uh, 16.
Silas: Oh, that's massive.
DM: 16 tail-whipping bludgeoning damage.
Tavian: Hmm, I don't like that.
DM: Uh, all right, next turn it is going to be your turn, Tavian.
Tito: Fuck yeah, hit him back.
Tavian: Yeah, hell yeah. I'm hitting him with, uh, with Witness.
DM: Bring it, charge him.
Tavian: Yeah, so I just need to move.
DM: Go all cinematic.
Tavian: There you go. Basically. Yeah, yeah, I'm just like, for glory, swinging, swinging Witness, the long sword. So that's, uh Yeah, 14 plus 8, 22.
Tito: It's a hit.
Tavian: Excellent.
Guntrah: Use all your shit, dude.
Tavian: Yeah, yeah.
DM: So I get—
Tavian: because I'm level 11, I'm like, uh, an auto divine hit.
DM: It's divine.
Guntrah: It's the motherfucker highest thing yet.
Tavian: Yeah, which is only 3.
Silas: Where the fuck are—
Tavian: oh no, that's Mind Censor.
Silas: Where am I?
Tavian: How do you activate Mind Smite? That just under actions?
Tito: Probably that one closer.
Tavian: Oh, I have to use a spell slot.
Tito: That's fine.
Guntrah: Yeah, yeah, use your highest spell slots, more d8s.
Tito: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Tavian: All right, all right, so that's 3rd level.
Tito: So that's all of those. I believe that's 48 plus your weapon damage.
Tavian: But plus my default. So for every— the extra damage is 2d8 for a 1st level plus 1d8 per level.
Silas: 48.
Tavian: 48.
Guntrah: Yeah, that's your weapon damage plus your modifier.
Tavian: Yeah, so I only have— oh, there's 5.
Silas: All right.
Tavian: Perfect. That's 10, 21, 26. That's 4.
Tito: So 30.
Tavian: Yeah.
Tito: That's all radiant.
Guntrah: Uh, most is radiant. There is slashing. Yeah, I don't think it matters.
DM: How much of those?
Tavian: 30 total. Yeah, 30 total.
Tito: 12 slashing.
Guntrah: You don't have an extra attack?
Tito: I do. Fuck, yeah, Divine Smite again.
Tavian: That's a nat 1.
Guntrah: Holy shit.
Tavian: I'm hasting, so I can I'm gonna swing one more time.
Guntrah: There you go.
Tavian: So that's 11 plus 8, 19 to hit.
Silas: Nope. Fuck.
Tavian: All right, that's my turn.
Tito: I could have been some— 2 more hits and 2 more Divine Strikes.
Tavian: Uh, oh wait, uh, I might just bonus action to get another level 2.
Guntrah: Wait, hold on, before you do anything.
Tito: Let me make that real quick.
Tavian: Oh yeah, can you do Inspiring Genius or Flash of Genius?
Guntrah: Everything 30 feet?
DM: No, you're higher than 30.
Tito: You're 45 feet in the air.
Guntrah: I can't do anything for you.
Tavian: All right, I'm just gonna harness divine power, unlock one more 2nd-level, and that's my turn.
DM: All right, Gunn and Ollie.
Guntrah: All right, Ollie's moving up all the way. Yep, and Ollie's gonna do a, uh, attack. He is going to do a rend attack. Probably gonna hit.
Tito: Let me make sure.
Silas: 2.
Guntrah: It's made 23. And the rend attack does, um, sucks, 5 damage.
DM: All right.
Guntrah: Um, and then I will go and attack with my crossbow. I'm gonna attack twice.
Silas: Let me see.
Guntrah: It's a hit.
DM: Uh, can you tell me the—
Guntrah: Uh, it was, uh, 28.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Um, 17 to attack, or—
Guntrah: No, for the next one.
DM: Oh, that's a miss.
Guntrah: Okay, so I will do a, uh, where's my D10?
DM: It's like a rock dragon, this battle music. That's cool looking. Yeah, my favorite dragons though is the turtle dragon or dragon turtle.
Silas: Oh nice.
DM: I almost bought one, but it was like $12.
Guntrah: Well, did piercing damage, 12 piercing, and we're going to do an arcane jolt.
Tito: So 2d6s on top of that.
DM: 12 force damage, so 24 total.
Guntrah: 24 total. And, uh, I'm gonna have my movement move me.
DM: And all of your damage is magical, even the regular crossbow?
Guntrah: Yes, everything's magical. Okay, that is my turn. Sorry, how's this drag?
DM: Ollie also, so it's back up to the top of the order. It is Vrenn's turn.
Tito: Um, this character sheet back up. Here's the old model.
Guntrah: This guy's got to be getting close. Within 50 to 60 health points.
Tavian: You think so? I think he still has 100.
Guntrah: He's bloodied and we're at 190, and we just did— you did 30, I did 24, so he's gotta be close.
Tito: This dragon's gonna get bitched.
Silas: Oh, it's a touch though. Goddamn it.
Guntrah: He can get touch range if he needs to.
DM: Oh, now that I read the text, I'm not gonna do that anyway.
Silas: Do it.
DM: Um, it has haste, but I don't think it makes sense to cast it on either of you two because it's— the extra action can be used to attack only, or dash, disengage, hide, or use it. You guys aren't attackers. You're a caster, so that doesn't make any sense.
Guntrah: He aced me.
Tavian: Um, what's your—
DM: how, how wounded do you look visually?
Tito: We're both fucked.
DM: Well, who looks the ugliest from damage, like the most damaged person?
Tito: It's hard to say. What do you got, 30 hit points?
Silas: Well, 36.
Tito: Oh, I have 29. He has 10 hit points though, so really he has 30 and I have 29, so we both look like sack fucking snakes.
DM: You both look— actually, I think Vrenn himself might be worse than that.
Tito: He's down to 23. 3 hit points still make you look good. Yeah, tell him to cast fucking Hold Dragon again.
DM: He's not going to use a 7th level spell, um, not yet. Not unless it's a, you know, the end.
Tito: Not until I persuade him to next turn.
DM: Uh, but he will cast Invisibility. Cast your highest He can cast it at 3rd, probably 4th level, I would assume. Yeah, he can cast it as a 4th level spell, which allows him to make 3 people invisible that are—
Silas: how—
DM: what's the range on it? Oh, it's a touch spell. I didn't realize that. Invisibility is a touch spell, and you guys are on opposite sides. Well, considering he's closest— closer to Silas than you, He's gonna run over, put his hand on Silas's shoulder, and then Silas, you and Vrenn both go invisible.
Tavian: We're technically within 5. Their corners are touching.
DM: Oh yeah, okay, but you can't touch them both at the same time though, so he still has to pick one either way.
Tavian: No, I'm just saying he can only make—
DM: he's already there.
Tavian: Yeah, they're right— yeah, they're right next to each other.
DM: Okay, so he, he reaches over, he touches Silas's shoulder. And poof, you disappear. You are invisible. And then, yeah, after he does— since he was close enough to touch him, after he does that, he's gonna scoot around the other side just to create some separation.
Tavian: Yeah.
DM: Okay, now it's Tito's turn.
Tito: Okay, I am going to use one of my Bardic Inspirations to use Unsettling Words as my bonus action.
DM: Oh, you already did that once. Did that come up?
Guntrah: No, no, because Russ auto—
DM: yeah, that's right.
Tito: So it says the creature must have Subtract the number rolled from the next saving throw it makes before the start of your next turn. So if I cast that before I cast any spells, the next spell I cast, right?
DM: Yeah.
Tito: So I cast that first.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Is that in the bonus action, I take it?
Tito: Yep.
Silas: Okay.
Tavian: What is it called?
DM: Unsettling Words. It's not actually a spell, it's like a feature or an effect.
Tito: And then I'm going to cast a 5th level Phantasmal Killer, which is a Wisdom 16.
DM: Wisdom 16, okay.
Tito: And then do you want me to roll for what he gets minus for you?
DM: It's all gonna come out in the wash, so whatever you want to do. Uh, I mean, it has that effect anyway, so you might as well roll. I rolled a 9. I add use of Wisdom, so 7. So 16, and then minus 5, 11.
Tavian: Yep.
DM: So what is this?
Tito: Fails. So it's going to be 5d10 psychic damage. Psychic damage.
Silas: Okay.
Tito: And then let me roll this, and then, and then I will do the— and then, and then 2, 11, 16. 17, 18 psychic damage.
DM: Okay.
Tito: Then it has disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls for the duration. On a successful— for the duration, the target makes a wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns, or they take the damage On a failed save, it takes the psychic damage again.
Silas: Yeah.
Tito: But during the duration, so until the end of its next turn, disadvantage on ability checks and attack rolls.
Silas: Got it.
Tito: And I will make sure to call that out.
DM: All right. Uh, that's it for you, right?
Silas: Yep.
Tavian: Hell yeah.
DM: Uh, Russ.
Silas: Oh, I guess I'll go ahead and A sculpted fireball that's perfectly dragon-shaped?
Tito: Yes.
Tavian: Can you, can you hold creature monster? I can, but it has disadvantage on saving throws, so now would be the time.
Silas: Oh my gosh, I don't know. I mean, it doesn't do any damage, right?
Tavian: No, but it holds him so we can lay the hurt on it.
Tito: It does go next, but it wouldn't do anything during its turn. We can save it from doing any damage for its next turn.
Tavian: Yeah, with so many of us so close to death, I mean, his very first spell did 80 damage.
Tito: His breath weapon. Fuck yeah.
DM: Um, all right, so I'm out of it.
Silas: I guess we'll try it then.
DM: Uh, um, sorry, hold on. Uh, He's doing a— dragon's doing a tail whip real quick.
Tavian: On his turn?
DM: It's a legendary action. Oh, um, I forgot to do my legendary action.
Silas: Slit and drag. Actually, I can do a thing where I can transport into his stomach and I would just be inside and just cut his stomach open from inside.
Guntrah: Haven't you done this already?
Tavian: Yeah, Ant-Man style.
DM: Yeah, actually, it's instead of doing the tail, it's going to do a wing attack, so it kind of flaps its wings. Everybody within 10 feet has to make a dexterity saving throw.
Tavian: All right, I have advantage on dex because I'm hasted.
Tito: Yes.
Tavian: Uh, you got Ollie, and Ollie gets +3 for being next to me.
Guntrah: Okay, so, um, that's gonna be 18, 21.
Silas: Okay.
Tavian: A nat 1 and a nat 20.
DM: No way. All right, so let's see, uh, hold on, hold on, hold on.
Tavian: Uh, I got it, I saved.
DM: It's only 3— half, half— it's only 3 bludgeoning damage anyway. Okay, and you're not knocked prone, you're upright.
Tavian: Sweet.
Tito: And Bren's not within 10 feet. He's invisible. Would that still— it would—
Tavian: no, he's like just past him.
Tito: Yeah, he's just past him.
Guntrah: Okay, now the saving throw for the dragon.
Tavian: What about Ollie?
Tito: Oh, is that what you made it for, Ollie?
Guntrah: Yeah, yeah, he's safe. He got 3.
DM: Okay, so what are you doing, Silas?
Silas: Oh, uh, so the Hold Monster. So, uh, wisdom save from SB17.
Tito: And disadvantage. Disadvantage.
Tavian: And no longer invisible.
DM: Uh, uh, sorry, 14 plus 7 is 21. Is there subtraction?
Tito: No.
DM: This one's not subtracted at all?
Silas: No.
Guntrah: Well, have you done— has the saving throw happened yet?
DM: I already—
Tito: he already— he already made up his mind to do this.
DM: It was a nat 20 and a 14, so if there's no subtractions, then it's no Yeah, damn.
Silas: Fuck.
Silas: All right, that sucks.
Tito: Oh wait, but you do got to take the damage. It, it did go, so you have to roll the damage for—
DM: it hasn't been its turn yet. Oh, that was a legend. Yeah, this is his turn. Okay, right, his— he goes next. And what is at the end of this turn, at the beginning?
Tito: Uh, let me tell you.
Silas: Am I not—
Silas: oh wait, am I still visible? You have—
DM: you cast— oh yeah, when you cast it, you become You have movement and you have bonus action.
Tito: It would have happened if you cast any spells, so.
Silas: All right, um, well, there's no place to move that makes any sense.
DM: Yeah, you're basically— yeah, it's an arena almost.
Tito: Yeah, uh, I guess he ended his turn.
DM: Oh, that's right, because you cast the spell after you did your— that's why I was confused about it. I was thinking that was first so that I couldn't get to you. Right, right, right. I'm trying to think if that would have made a difference. What was it, -5?
Tito: Yeah, it was -5.
DM: So that would have been what, 14 plus 7, 21 minus 5, 16. What was your DC?
Silas: 17.
DM: So that he would have been held again if you see him, but he wouldn't have had to Disadvantage if I didn't. Oh, that's true. And then the nat 20 would have overridden it anyway, so you're right, wouldn't have mattered anyway. All right, sorry, I was talking, talked over you. Oh, bonus action or movement?
Silas: I don't think I have any bonus actions.
Silas: Okay. Um.
DM: Okay, so when it says a 60-foot cone, is it the end of the cone that's 60 feet across, or is it 60 feet distance?
Tavian: 60 feet distance.
DM: And how does, how does the cone shape again? Do you remember?
Guntrah: Um, what does it say?
DM: It just says exhales poisonous gas in a 60-foot cone. That's all it says.
Tito: I was just looking at, um, little devices on the So I mean, a 60-foot cone, I feel like that would be the peak of the cone would be 60 feet.
DM: It feels like it's both 60 feet in distance and then 60 feet across at the end.
Tito: Yeah, so you can do that. So we'll work it out. Whatever, I'm out of it.
DM: So it's 10 squares. I'm thinking it's like a 10 by 10 by 10 triangle. 10 and squares, not this, not It's like a 10-count square this way, 10-count square across, then 10-count back.
Guntrah: And you rolled the d6?
DM: Uh, yeah, I got a 5. I rolled 2 turns ago, so he's had his breath for a while. He just hadn't been able to use it.
Guntrah: I'm imagining like a cone that's 60, and then how far across?
DM: And then I would think 60 from end to end as well. That's what I was kind of imagining. Yeah, it's an equilateral triangle.
Tavian: Yeah.
DM: Yep. Okay, perfect. Um, I don't have an equilateral triangle, so let's just say, uh, yeah, I would say he probably can't get— he's got to pick between one of these 2, so That's you, right, Ben?
Tavian: No, I'm right here.
Tito: Oh, that's you.
Tavian: That's, uh, that's Russ.
DM: Okay. All right, so it's good. They're gonna—
Tito: one of you two.
DM: I'll just do, uh, odds and evens on a d6 here. Uh, odds, he includes Silas. Evens, he includes Tito.
Tavian: Silas and Russ.
Guntrah: All right, Ollie.
DM: I got a 6. So Tito, Tito, Tavian, and Ollie all need Uh, Constitution saving throw to do this.
Guntrah: So the cone's going which way?
DM: These 3, it's going to go in this way.
Guntrah: So it's gonna hit him?
DM: Yeah, it's gonna hit Ollie and Tavian and Tito.
Silas: Con?
Tavian: You said con?
Tito: Yes, please, con. And is this a spell? Would you— is—
DM: so you guys both— this is a massive gas of poison.
Tito: Oh, you guys, tell me this is a magical spell.
DM: No, it is a toxic gas.
Tavian: I got 11.
DM: And it's a creature ability.
Guntrah: 22.
DM: Trolley, 22?
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Holy fuck, you guys are just— I don't know that you've rolled under 20 on any of these things in the whole battle.
Tito: I got a 4.
DM: Oh, okay.
Tavian: I got an 11.
DM: Oh, you got 11. Okay, um, okay.
Silas: So I must have—
Silas: I got hit for 40.
DM: Uh, very good damage rolls for you guys, not for the dragon. Uh, 34— I'm sorry, that's bad math. Uh, 36, right? 4 times 9 is 36, right? Yes, 36.
Guntrah: 18 for—
DM: 18 for Ollie, 36 for Tavian, 36 for Tito.
Tavian: I'm down.
DM: Okay, I—
Tito: so my cape has this thing that's Grace Under Pressure.
Silas: Yep.
Tito: While wearing this cape, oh, the show must go on. When you are reduced to 0 hit points but not killed outright, Right. The cape flares upward and you drop to 1 hit point instead as the faint sound of distant applause fills the air. Yeah, this property can only be used once per day.
DM: I would say narratively what happens, this gas kind of floods you and you breathe it in and you start like passing out from it, but then the cape stuffs itself in your mouth to stop you from breathing it in anymore and you stay conscious.
Guntrah: Endurance.
DM: Yeah, it's basically— yes, it's a A barred version of Relentless Endurance.
Guntrah: Okay, so I only have 1 hit point.
DM: You have 1 hit point, yes.
Tito: So I need to take 28 damage.
Silas: Fuck.
Guntrah: That took his action.
DM: Yes. Um, and then, uh, it's gonna use a legendary action to do a tail attack.
Guntrah: You can't use legendary action.
DM: I, I can.
Tito: What are the rules?
DM: I'm not using a standard stat block. It has legendary actions it can use when it wants to, but it's limited.
Tito: It has to happen after a player character's fight move.
DM: Well, actually, it does say that the original stat block says after another creature's turn. I'm using it after any turn.
Guntrah: Okay, well, I guess, yeah, I'll burn these books and all my other books over there.
DM: If you want, I could have— so I had a choice to make, right? This particular green dragon, I didn't want to be the regular adult green dragon, but I also didn't want it to be the ancient green dragon. So I had to make something in the middle. So I modified, took a little bit of each and made some changes to make it what I would consider what it actually should be. So that's part of what I created. I could have went with either of the other ones. One would have been too easy, it would have been dead 20, 30 minutes ago at least. The other one would have team wiped you by now.
Guntrah: I'm sure.
DM: So I tried to find a good healthy balance, and I think I'm doing pretty good so far with this one. But if you'd rather one of the other options, just let me know. Uh, okay, what's he doing? So tail attack. Um, I would say this time he's just gonna go for Ollie because Ollie's right there.
Silas: It's a—
Tito: I have a left point left that I should have used to roll on that.
DM: Uh, he rolled a 2, so even with his +11, it's only 13 to hit. Oh, what's the Steel Defender AC?
Guntrah: 15. They missed.
Tito: He goes, it's just too little.
Guntrah: Yep.
DM: Uh, okay, now let me go back. There is Tavian. Need a death saving throw, please.
Tavian: That's a fail.
Silas: Fuck.
DM: And since it's another creature's turn ending, he's gonna do another tail attack on Ollie. Uh, 5 plus 11, 16.
Tavian: It hits.
DM: That's gonna be Uh, 15 damage. I have no idea how much HP that thing has.
Guntrah: 62.
DM: 62?
Tito: Holy shit, it has more hit points than I do. No, I have 69. But yeah, it's literally the same.
DM: Vrenn has, I think, 63 total. 67.
Guntrah: Between me and Ollie, we got over 100. I'm almost 170.
DM: Uh, okay, so that's the end of your turn. Uh, it's Ollie and you.
Guntrah: Ollie's gonna try and attack. Um, he can do a Rend. 15 plus our proficiency is 4, is it, at this point? Or is it 5?
Silas: 4.
Tavian: 19.
Tito: Jesus Christ.
DM: Uh, it's still a miss though.
Silas: Dang.
Guntrah: Uh, I'm just gonna take 2 crossbow bolts.
Tito: Um, I didn't need any healing bolts.
Guntrah: Uh, it's gonna be a 25.
DM: That's a hit.
Tito: Wrenn's still invisible, so—
Guntrah: And that's gonna be a 22.
Tavian: As soon as he casts a spell.
Guntrah: 22, 25, both hit.
DM: Uh, yes, 22 also hits.
Guntrah: All right, let's get that damage out of the way. 6.
DM: Oh, I didn't, um, I didn't roll for Phantasmal Killer. Uh, what do I need to do for No, you already got out of it. Oh, okay. I don't remember doing that.
Guntrah: 9 plus 12, 21 piercing.
Tavian: I don't think he rolled at the end of his turn.
DM: I don't remember doing that.
Guntrah: Are you sure? I don't think he did, but okay.
Tito: It's wisdom.
DM: He did— no, he rolled for the wisdom saving throw for his whole person.
Tito: He never did your wisdom saving throw at the end of his turn, so it's, um, Well, that, that fucks up a lot of shit.
DM: What do you mean?
Tito: Because he— it makes him— because if he— a failed save, he has— he still has, uh, disadvantage on all of his attack rolls and ability checks.
DM: Uh, yeah, that would have affected his attack roll on Ollie, which the first one missed, the second one hit. It might have had a small difference, but It's not really that big of a deal.
Tito: Well, it's a Wisdom 16 saving throw.
DM: Okay, I'll do that now.
Tito: It's 5d10 psychic on a fail. On a success, the spell just ends.
DM: Uh, 19 plus something. Yeah, okay, I just want to make sure we got that out of the way.
Guntrah: 31 damage.
DM: 31. Okay, he's starting to get a little fucked up. It's not pretty.
Guntrah: Um, it's my turn.
DM: Actually, I'll go In the air still?
Silas: Yeah, dude.
DM: Still 45? Uh, and you did Ollie already, so—
Guntrah: Worst comes to worst, I'm gonna kite this motherfucker.
DM: Vrenn's turn. Um, hold on, I gotta look something up for Vrenn here.
Guntrah: Vrenn, fuck 'em up! We still got a healer on us right now.
Silas: We got a healer. Where?
Guntrah: Dude, we got a bard and me.
DM: I both—
Guntrah: I can heal too.
Silas: Oh good.
Tito: Yeah, but you're not supposed to heal.
DM: Yeah, you are.
Tito: It's not worth it in combat.
Silas: Not in combat.
DM: Well, it's worth it to get people up. It's not worth it to go from 10 to 20. But it's worth it to go from 0 to 1.
Tavian: Yeah, not gonna die now.
DM: Um, yeah, and then it depends on turn order though, really, at that point, because if you pick them back up and they're easily going to go right back down before they even get a turn, then it doesn't make sense.
Tito: So then are you after the dragon?
DM: Well, it restarts, but that's—
Silas: but that—
DM: it does restart the death saving throw count too as well. But really, that's more of a metagaming thing of just— you're looking at 1.
Guntrah: Yeah, unless we have resurrection or something.
Tavian: I have Revivify, but that doesn't help me.
Guntrah: I should be like, as I sail over, I'm like, get him up!
DM: So I was checking to see what options—
Tito: yeah, but I have 1 hit point too, so—
Guntrah: You have your 3 saving throws, which I have advantage on.
Tito: My cloak gives me that too.
Guntrah: Cloak of Protection?
Tito: My cloak of whatever it's called.
DM: Would you, would you consider using the Message spell to break invisibility? It's not a concentration thing and it doesn't require verbal—
Guntrah: A spell breaks concentration.
DM: And the technical term is that any spell breaks concentration, and a cantrip is considered a spell.
Guntrah: No, cantrip is not considered a spell.
DM: It's not? So cantrip is not breaking it?
Guntrah: It's a different category.
Tavian: No, no, only a concentration spell breaks a concentration.
Guntrah: No, no, no.
DM: So we're talking invisibility, not concentration.
Guntrah: Invisibility is broken by any spell. A cantrip is not a spell. A cantrip is a cantrip.
DM: But like Shocking Grasp is a cantrip, and that should break invisibility.
Tito: I think any action.
Tavian: Any action.
Guntrah: Well, any action that does damage also breaks invisibility.
DM: I, I was, I was thinking about it more Or literally, like, you're invisible until something—
Guntrah: If you're invisible and you swing your axe, you're not invisible.
DM: Right, uh, I agree.
Guntrah: Cantrip is like swinging your axe.
Silas: Yeah.
Guntrah: In my opinion.
DM: So you're not invisible, right?
Guntrah: Yeah, you lose invisibility once you— once you do an action that shows the person that you're invisible to that you're there.
DM: But that's the thing. The Message spell doesn't do that. That's why I was wondering if it's different, because there's nothing—
Guntrah: It's a gray area.
DM: Right, there's nothing about the Message spell that would—
Guntrah: Yeah, that'd be on you to decide.
DM: So here's— I'll actually just take advantage of Logistics. So he's invisible, so he's just gonna shift back here a little bit more to be out of range. He's gonna use the Message cantrip. We'll say he's not invisible anymore, but the dragon doesn't know where he is 'cause he's behind him. So he's going to use the Message spell and he's going to message you, Gunn, and he's going to say, I have a way out. We need to all get in touch range again and I'll get us out of here.
Guntrah: Um, say, almost dead, we got this.
DM: I don't know that you can respond to this one.
Silas: Hold on.
Guntrah: Is it message?
DM: Oh yeah, you can reply in a whisper.
Tito: Yeah, yeah.
Guntrah: I'll say, almost dead, we got this.
DM: Okay, um, you think—
Guntrah: no, I mean, he can't respond, right?
DM: No, there's just one, one for one. Um, okay, because I'm healthy as fuck.
Guntrah: I'm raining down 30 points of damage on this mofo every turn, plus my dude's in there battling.
DM: Okay, so let's see.
Guntrah: Wait, wait, wait, it almost got this.
Tito: 30. So he's dead in one attack. I can't even attack, he's already dead. He can't respond.
Guntrah: Well, that's why I'm just putting that in his mind.
DM: Got it, put it in his mind. Got it, he heard it. Uh, Tito, my turn.
Tito: I think I just gotta go for it, so I'm going to You can't be that far off, man.
DM: This is fucked up.
Tito: I'm gonna use my Regain Bardic Inspiration. You can expend a spell slot, no action required, to regain 1 expended use of Bardic Inspiration. So I'm gonna burn a 1st-level spell slot to get that Bardic Inspiration back. Then I am going to use that Bardic Inspiration Preparation for Unsettling Words against the dragon, which will be 1d10 off of that. And then I'm going to cast— I'm at a 5th level— 4th level Phantasmal Killer, which is a Wisdom 16 saving throw minus whatever you roll. Minus 3.
DM: Since, since things are starting to get clutch, I'll roll again.
Silas: Nat 20. Oh, okay.
Tito: So it is going to be—
DM: see, at least this, like, now you know I'm not cheating though. Like, I, I don't, I don't like to do that.
Silas: Fuck.
Tito: 11, 15, respectable damage halved. So 8 psychic damage.
DM: 8 psychic.
Guntrah: Is the dragon scared?
DM: Uh, I don't know that there's any outward signs of that.
Guntrah: We knew he was fucked up.
DM: Nah, he didn't.
Guntrah: He said he's pretty fucked up.
DM: He's fucked up.
Tavian: Oh, okay.
DM: He's fucked up.
Guntrah: Okay, bro, I got 90 hit points over here.
Tito: And then I'm gonna move.
DM: Yeah, but would you keep going if you were the last one standing?
Guntrah: Fuck yeah, I'll avenge my friends.
Tito: 5, 10, 15, 20.
Guntrah: Oh no, oh no.
DM: Okay, Silas.
Silas: Okay, um, so I'm going to cast Fireball then. And dex 17.
Tito: Where are you casting it at? Because I think you're gonna hit.
DM: I should have rolled that in front of the table too.
Silas: But what was that?
DM: I rolled to see if he got his breath weapon back, and he did. Oh, I got a 6.
Silas: So do I hit them?
DM: I'm sorry, what was that? Fireball?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Dex saving throw?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Uh, I forget what his dex saving throws are.
Tito: Okay, here, I'll roll in front.
DM: Uh, 9 plus 6, 15.
Silas: Oh good, 17.
DM: Okay, so let's take the full fireball. Oh shoot, I keep forgetting to do my legendary tail whips too.
Silas: 33.
DM: Oof, it does not look good.
Silas: Come on, Laurie.
DM: It's starting to, uh, sag in here. Heave a little bit.
Silas: You have—
DM: oh, because you're cloaked.
Tito: I'm fucking hanging on. That's why my spell failed. I cast it half-assed.
Tavian: Okay, so Fireball. Doing anything else?
DM: No, no, just Fireball.
Tavian: We just need you to succeed on a death saving throw.
Silas: You did it! Just hang in there.
DM: All right, uh, so it is going to— I'll even get an attack of opportunity. Oh, actually no, I'm still within range of him.
Guntrah: Never mind. Damn it.
DM: Um, he is going to do some claw and bite attacks at Silas. Uh, fuck. Uh, 17 to hit. I think you have low AC, I think, don't you?
Silas: Yeah. Can I do— oh no, it won't matter.
Guntrah: Okay, shield won't get you up high enough.
Tito: No, I can't do 16.
DM: Um, that's gonna be— this is the bite.
Silas: Whoops.
Tito: Did you say bite ankle? Yes.
DM: Um, it's only 10 Piercing from the bite.
Guntrah: That's like a third of his health.
DM: Uh, and that— oh, plus the poison damage. Sorry, hold on. Plus 5 more poison.
Tito: 15 damage.
Silas: Yep.
DM: And then he's gonna do a claw attack. Uh, that is 19 to hit, so still unshieldable. Um, that's gonna be 11 slashing. And then his last claw attack—
Silas: Why do you have so many?
DM: Because he's a fucking green dragon.
Tito: He gets it back.
DM: He rolled a natural 1 on that last hit.
Tavian: You're down to like 3 or something.
DM: And then on— he's gonna do his legendary action.
Silas: I had 6 temporary ones too. Oh, you kept saying 30, but I was like— I kept saying 36.
Tito: Yeah, yeah.
DM: So I need a dexterity saving throw from Ollie and Silas.
Tavian: No one gets any bonuses from me.
Guntrah: 19 on the die. 23.
DM: That's a pass.
Guntrah: Let's go, Ollie.
DM: I should have just made you fight the ancient one. I should have done ancient one. Oh no, we're gonna defeat a green dragon.
Guntrah: He's desperate at this point.
DM: I need a dexterity saving throw from you.
Tavian: Oh, d20.
Silas: What was, what was going on?
DM: He's doing a wing attack. Uh, for his legendary action.
Silas: Oh, against me?
Guntrah: His wings are—
DM: Well, he's doing it to everybody in a circle around him, which you're just out of range, so you don't have— you don't die from this.
Tavian: Oh good.
Silas: 6.
DM: Okay, uh, it's only 9 bludgeoning damage reduced to half for you, and then 4 for you.
Tito: No, 9 for you. So yeah, you take—
DM: you take 9, Aldi takes 4.
Silas: Oh, why do I take more?
DM: Because he failed and he passed.
Guntrah: Oh, all right, let's go.
Tito: Welcome to the club, brother.
DM: You're both down to 1.
Tito: Yeah, I've had 1 for 2 turns now.
DM: I mean, I'll be honest, the fact that you're not dead is absolutely remarkable.
Tito: I'm only not dead because of my cloak. It saved me.
Guntrah: I'm actually super healthy.
DM: Well, that's because you're not participating.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: I mean, as soon as we're done and he comes for you, you're done.
Tito: I do.
DM: Uh, okay. Um, and then Tavian, you need a death saving throw. Speak to God.
Guntrah: Speak to God.
DM: Speak to the God.
Tito: Pray.
Silas: 19.
Guntrah: You gotta talk to him, dude.
DM: Yeah, that's what I'm talking about. Yeah. There was a potential for you to get a 20, come back up to 1 hit point, and then 3 of you survive with 1 hit point left. That was on the cards.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Okay, uh, Gunn and Ollie.
Guntrah: I mean, Ollie's gonna do a rend attack.
DM: Does Ollie do anything else?
Guntrah: We can repair. He actually has reaction to take damage if he does like an attack that Um, it's within enough feet, he can take the damage, but he should—
DM: He should move then.
Guntrah: He was next to this guy, he's down.
DM: Oh, I thought there was a gap between them. How close has he got to be?
Tavian: No, now there's a 5-foot attack of opportunity.
Guntrah: I'm not gonna do it. Okay, uh, I'm gonna do 2 Bow attacks. Okay, um, 26.
Silas: Mm-hmm.
Guntrah: 16.
Silas: Nope.
Guntrah: So 26 gonna do, um, here we go. Come on, people, people. 6 plus 6, 12 piercing. Okay, hold on. Plus my last Arcane— oh no, I have 2 Arcane Jolts. 9 force.
DM: Okay, still super fucked up.
Silas: Uh, that's, that's—
Guntrah: well, um, hold on, let me look for bonus actions before my turn ends. Okay, I'm gonna fly closer over here. Once I move.
DM: Are you still 45 feet up?
Silas: Yep. Okay.
Guntrah: Uh, maybe I'll descend about 30.
DM: To 30 or descend 30?
Guntrah: To 30 feet.
Silas: Got it. Okay.
DM: Um, Vrenn's turn. See, what I haven't been saying out loud, because Vrenn is not a brave enough person to say it out loud, out is that he doesn't want the dragon to die because he thinks the dragon might be his chance at keeping— Wait, wait, wait, kill the dragon?
Tavian: Hold on.
DM: But if— and then so basically, if the dragon dies, he has no choice but to go with you guys and put you guys in danger, and he doesn't want that either. So he's, he's got a green dragon. He's got a very strong moral confusion going on, and that he's trying— he wants things to end with everybody alive But he doesn't know how he can achieve that, but that's what he's operating towards.
Guntrah: We're going to kill this thing!
DM: But you don't know that. Your characters don't know any of that. They might be a little bit confused now about why he might seem to be holding back a little.
Guntrah: We're stronger than this thing, let's kill it!
DM: But he now thinks that there's a chance that you might permanently— he doesn't want that to happen either. He can't heal, but he knows that there can be heals if this thing is defeated. dragon were no longer in the picture. So he's going to send his last chromatic orb at it at 7th level.
Tito: Nice.
DM: He's not using it. He doesn't—
Silas: he—
DM: yeah, he's, he's, uh, but I think it's worth a shot.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Okay, he's gonna use a 4th level Chromatic Orb, +10 to hit. I'll roll in front of Tavel. Jeez, he misses.
Tito: Christ.
DM: That's the second time he's done that. His first Chromatic Orb, he got double nat 1s, and this time he got a nat 1.
Guntrah: Oh really?
DM: Yeah, he whiffs. He throws a Chromatic Orb at the ground, apparently. Okay, that was, that was it for him.
Silas: Tito, why did that dice have just 1s on it?
DM: It's a spell. I had that, it's hidden.
Tito: Yeah, so I'm gonna use my Regain Bardic Inspiration. I'm gonna burn a 1st-level spell slot to regain that. I'm gonna use Unsettling Words.
DM: And you can do that as much as you want, it doesn't take an action. Yeah, well, I know, but there's probably still a limit. I can use it as long as you have spell slots, you can keep doing it.
Tito: Yeah, I can burn, and I have tons of 1st and 2nd-level 7 first and second level spell slots.
DM: So you're giving yourself, uh, or giving him the disadvantage— or not disadvantage, but a minus on his saving attempt.
Tito: Correct. And then I'm gonna cast another Phantasmal Killer at 4th level, so it's gonna be a Wisdom 16 minus 5.
DM: 16 minus 5. He needs to get a 21 essentially, which means he needs a 14 on the dice because Yeah, because he has +7.
Silas: 13.
DM: He takes the full damage. He missed by 1.
Tito: Yeah, again, full damage that motherfucker. 10, 14, so 24 plus 8, 32 psychic damage.
Guntrah: 32.
DM: Um, yeah, uh, that's the last hit. You, you shatter his brain with your words.
Silas: Whoa.
Guntrah: What do you— what do you—
DM: is it like a— isn't it a monologue? Is that how you deliver it?
Tito: It's verbal, so yeah.
DM: You talk him to death?
Silas: Yeah.
Silas: I've done that to a couple people.
DM: It is possible, what you're saying.
Silas: Yes, I've had a couple say, okay, stop.
Tito: So I'm just chanting this spell over there, and it just ruptures his mind, and I collapse in exhaustion afterwards.
DM: Uh, yeah, so there the dragon falls over lifeless, and I instantly go over and do Cure Wounds on him.
Silas: Okay.
Tito: And I will cast—
Guntrah: um, that's gonna be 15 points of healing.
Tito: Sweet. Are we out of initiative? Can I cast Cure Wounds on myself?
DM: Yeah, you can do that. Yeah, we're out of initiative, so whatever self things you want to do, do. 8d8 plus 4.
Guntrah: Actually, no, I'm sorry, it's 17.
Silas: Nice.
Tito: Um, 11.
Guntrah: I then— I take out my greataxe and I go, I'm not taking any chances. I go over to like his like broken wing, like his damaged wing, and I just hack it off.
DM: You're just gonna keep hacking at the wings until it separates completely?
Guntrah: I hack his entire wing off. I hack his other wing off. I go, Ted, I thought you were my friend.
DM: It takes you 3 minutes per wing to hack them off.
Guntrah: And I hack all the limbs off.
DM: Oh, you can keep going.
Guntrah: I'm just like, it's like my, my orcish nature takes over after seeing my friend goes down and how hard the battle was, and the fact that he was such an asshole after us being pretty friendly and taking care of his thing. I'm like, fuck you.
DM: And I'm like, you're letting that barbarian out.
Guntrah: Normally I'm the, you know, the well-kempt, thoughtful guy, but at this point it's like, dude, we did nothing to you, you're an asshole, and I'm just making sure this green dragon's never coming back. I'm just hacking him up.
DM: Alright, yeah, so you start hacking at him.
Guntrah: And you guys just see blood going—
DM: I'm just like— Green dragon blood. You get a little bit of— take a few poison damage from the blood splatter.
Tito: I also cast a 1st level and a 2nd level Cure Wounds on myself as well.
DM: Yep, do what you need to do.
Guntrah: You hurt my friends, fuck you. So by the end of it, wings, limbs, and tail are all separated, and head.
Tavian: Oh, I'm too sad. Take witness. Stab it in his head.
DM: Um, yeah, when you come back to life, you notice that one of the glyphs is now lit when they, when they pull you back up.
Tavian: I'm pretty sure that gives me another—
Tito: Don't burn all your spell slots because it's still morning time.
DM: I think it is, it's like 8 AM or something early in the morning.
Tito: Yeah, I still have some 3rd level and 2 2nd levels.
Guntrah: You guys, you kind of see Gun looking more like a barbarian than he ever has, just like beefed out.
DM: I, I'd say after like 10 minutes— Oh, it's not from the dragon's death. You notice the green mist is essentially gone from this clearing.
Tito: As I guess, I guess, uh, get your temp hit points there.
DM: So with the rune lining up on Witness, I, I haven't programmed that yet, so— Okay, I'll get to you.
Tavian: I was gonna say, it doesn't say— yeah, it's like it's not yet known.
DM: I didn't want to allow it to be spoiled, so I didn't put anything in there.
Tito: Okay, cool. Dang, that's my first dragon. Popped my cherry.
Guntrah: Dude, we had our first dragon a while back.
DM: First campaign. But that was, that was a young one though.
Guntrah: It still nuked you guys with the breath weapon.
Silas: Yeah, that's pretty—
Tito: that was nuts. That was cool. How many legendary actions did it have?
DM: Way more than I did.
Guntrah: Yeah, you held back.
DM: I, I don't remember. It's just, it's not the top of my mind, you know. I'm more focused on who's next. And what— how much damage do I have to input in the computer? And, um, because in theory it should have done 3 legendary actions per round, and that went, what, 5 rounds? So that would have been 15 legendary actions minus sometimes you would have lost 1 because the, the wing thing cost 2 instead of 3 instead of 1. So that would have been—
Guntrah: Also being, being like paralyzed, couldn't do anything.
DM: Yeah, the, the failed saving throws twice on those whole Hold monsters was a lifesaver. You would have never won this fight had those not worked.
Guntrah: Which is why I'm gonna stumble up to Vrenn and be like, hey, I appreciate that.
DM: Uh, when you, when you go over to him and to say that, you notice that he's got his head down. He's kind of sitting down with his head near his knees. He's kind of got his fingers in his hair. His hood's back, maybe for the first time, and he's— he just seems like he is just distraught.
Tavian: Like, what the—
DM: what is— what is— what am I gonna do now? Like, he, he viewed that as his escape from you, from putting you guys in more danger, and now he doesn't know what to do.
Guntrah: What, you don't think we're capable?
DM: I, you know, I didn't know that you guys were capable of, of defeating this Dragon. So maybe you are, uh, maybe that's my best hope, but I don't know that it's your best hope.
Guntrah: And we don't really give up on people.
Tito: I stumble over.
DM: You don't understand. I've spent my whole life running away from people to protect them, and I don't know what else to do.
Guntrah: Well, it looks like we're not going to run away from you if you want to join us.
Tito: Yeah, I guess not, I say sarcastically.
Guntrah: Ignore him.
Tito: Look, he—
DM: Morvek could be here today or tomorrow, or—
Guntrah: And that's tomorrow.
DM: If he comes today, what are you gonna do? What am I gonna do?
Guntrah: We're gonna figure it out.
DM: I, I have nothing left. Well, I have one thing left. Me neither.
Guntrah: We also have friends, which is something you said you didn't have, and we have more of them.
DM: I'll, I'll take it under advisement. I will. I, I, I don't know what to do, but that sounds like as good a thing as anything else right now.
Guntrah: So we're part of an order and there's people that can assist us.
DM: Still feel you're part of our crew. I, I, again, I, I strongly appreciate that.
Guntrah: Despite— and I look up to this guy, Derek Gibson— not wanting this to happen.
DM: I don't know who that is.
Guntrah: He's kind of an elder god, kind of controls this plane.
DM: Sounds pretty remarkable. Yeah, I mean, I'll— I guess let's just see how it goes. And, you know, he sent me a message the other day.
Silas: I don't—
DM: I didn't tell you what he told me. Well, I mean, I guess I kind of did. He told me he was coming.
Guntrah: He said, best thing to do—
DM: I made a mistake, and he was gonna come for me.
Guntrah: Hey, best thing to do, don't talk back to exes.
Silas: Exes.
Guntrah: Yeah, when you're done, you're done.
DM: But he has my soul.
Guntrah: And we'll get that back too.
DM: And your credit card. And he stole my identity.
Guntrah: Yes, but we can take that back from him. At this point, you're kind of locked in.
DM: I mean, nothing would make me happier.
Guntrah: We'll honestly see how this goes. Killing a lich kind of sounds fun.
DM: Yeah, I've dreamed about it for years. Not today, though.
Guntrah: Maybe not today, but we can We get to a safe space, we get to, uh, some of our friends, we'll be protected. If we go back to school, we'll be fine.
DM: I mean, I'm running— I, I stole a lot of components from that basement, but they weren't necessarily for the spells that I'm casting. So I don't know about Silas and Tito, but I, I could probably use some more components. So maybe if we find someplace quickly—
Guntrah: We'll go someplace quickly where Our goal is to get back to the school at some point. At that point, you're pretty well protected.
Silas: Okay.
DM: All right, if you say so.
Guntrah: I kind of look about to my, uh, schoolmates, hoping that they kind of agree as I nervously say this.
Tito: I mean, I agree, when we get to the school, he'll be protected, but we're far as fuck away from the school.
Guntrah: Yeah, we just gotta get there.
DM: All right, that's it. Session over.
Tito: That was a fun fight. Yeah, that was close. I mean, it could have gone either way.
DM: We definitely could have got wiped.
Tito: I had one, he had one, he was down.