Silas: Oh, that's so cool.
DM: All right, we're officially recording now.
Tito: We're live.
DM: Yes, we're live. The whole world can hear you right now.
Silas: Oh no.
Tavian: I think it would be good.
DM: What's up, stream?
Tavian: A good idea to, to, uh, announce like what character it is, so hopefully I can tie the name to the voice.
DM: That's a good, uh, it's a good idea.
Tavian: Should we do the, the character description?
DM: Yes, I did want you guys to do that if you— if anybody has those. Well, so yeah, we'll go around, say who you are, say what your character's playing, and then talk— give the visual description of your character so that way it picks all of that up and then it's able to process all of that for better stuff. So, uh, this is Derek the DM talking right now. I don't have a character, so I have nobody to describe.
Tavian: Yeah, so— This is Tavian. I'm an Air Genasi. Gender is male. Eyes light blue, size medium, height 6'6, hair white with streaks of silver, skin blue, some silver almost tattoo-like markings on my face and body. Um, age 26, weight 220. Um, I'm wearing plate armor, got sword and shield.
Tito: Okay.
Guntrah: Miles, you're gonna go next?
Silas: Yes, where's my—
Tavian: the background?
Silas: Your—
DM: let's see, your race is ladyboy, your height is 4'3.
Tavian: It's canon.
DM: Yeah, you can't take it back. The microphone picked it up.
Guntrah: It picked it up. Uh, no, this is Guntrah. It's, uh, an Artificer Orc, uh, around 7'7 feet tall. Pretty, uh, hefty build. Um, got short black hair. And, uh, kind of a decent scar going through his top of his forehead through his eyebrow. Uh, he has a little, uh, steel automaton that is like a circle with, uh, a couple of stabby arms and legs. And, uh, yeah, I think that's it.
Tito: Tito here, goat person satyr. Um, pretty normal looking upper half, pretty normal looking human upper half, obviously protruding horns. Um, flowing red cloak with golden tassels, golden clasp, dark brown rugged pants with boots around my hooves. Made specifically to just— they're more like horseshoes, I guess you would say.
DM: Are your dark brown pants actually— is it just your fur?
Silas: No.
DM: You actually do have pants? No, they actually do have—
Tito: I do actually do have pants. Piercing brown eyes with a yellow ring around the outer edge. Very handsome for a goat. I'd say probably 5'8 and 3/4. So that's me.
DM: Oh, the horns, do they— are they the curved kind, or do they kind of just like—
Tito: Very ram-like, yes. Tight and curved.
DM: Like Leia buns, but away from the head?
Tito: Yes.
Silas: Okay.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Ivory color?
Tavian: Lighter?
DM: Are they more of a golden?
Tito: No, I'd say Like a mix of ivory and with like a hint of tanniness, like closer to like what my leg color would be, a lighter version of— if you could see my legs.
Silas: Wait, wait, what are your legs covered with?
Tito: Fur. I mean, they're goat legs.
DM: Oh, he does wear pants.
Silas: I was just gonna— I was just gonna ask if you wear pants.
Tito: I do wear pants. So I mean, if you're paying attention to my feet, because like the boots I'm wearing are— they're not really boots, they're more like Horseshoes with straps just to protect the bottom of my feet.
DM: They don't have like fake toes?
Tito: No.
DM: It's not like a, like a human boot?
Tito: No, but like with my pants on, if you're not looking at my toes, you might— well, I have horns, but you might think I'm just a normal human.
DM: So you don't— their legs have backward joints, so— Oh, like your hips go backward to your knee and then I think so. I don't think it's possible to confuse you for a human, even with the horns.
Silas: I guess if you have long pants on, maybe it would be— well, it still looks weird.
Tito: Oh yeah, so I was looking at this last time. It depends if we're going off of a Greek or a Roman satyr.
Silas: Oh.
Tito: Because they're both described differently.
Silas: Is it—
Tavian: look at these legs.
Silas: Latin satyrs?
Silas: Oh yeah, yeah, okay, yeah, that's not good.
Tito: Yeah, but these are normal looking.
Silas: Oh, well, kind of.
DM: Like normal joints. It's like you're walking on your toes all the time.
Tito: Well, yeah, so my ankles would—
Tavian: Your calf is pointy.
DM: Yeah, I mean, yeah, I, I think we're gonna establish that your legs don't ever come across as human legs.
Tavian: I don't see any of these ones wearing pants.
DM: Most, most of them have like skirts or little like fancy belts.
Silas: That sounds more like you.
Tito: There's no reason why I should wear pants.
Silas: Fancy belt and nothing else. You have a fancy belt on but nothing to hold up.
Tito: Actually, okay, I guess I could not wear pants. I'll wear kind of like a Tarzan cloth.
DM: A loincloth?
Tito: Yeah, with like a belt.
Tavian: Okay, all right.
DM: What about a skirt?
Tito: And it'll be like a dark green, like forest color.
DM: But you've got like the thing that goes under the loincloth to cup it, right? It's not just dangling. You gotta wear a kilt.
Tito: No, no loincloth, like front and back.
Tavian: These 2 podcasters are gonna be talking about this.
DM: Was it a Sarah and what was his name?
Silas: I forget.
DM: Adamantine.
Guntrah: I think we need to flavor them better than generic.
DM: I don't know, I thought they did great.
Tavian: I thought they crushed it.
Tito: Goat person, loincloth, 5'8 and a half. 3/4.
DM: You said 5'8 and 3/4.
Tito: Red cloak.
DM: Don't sell yourself short.
Tito: Golden tassels.
Silas: All right.
DM: Silas, piercing word.
Silas: Let's see, just think like a bowl of butterscotch pudding. That's kind of what my guy looks like, just a— um, I don't know. Uh, let's see. Well, I'm— I guess first of all, I'm, uh, my name's Silas. I'm a half-orc wizard.
Silas: Half-orc, half what?
Silas: Isn't it always half human?
Guntrah: It doesn't have to be.
DM: Oh, if you want it to be, it could be, but your other half could be any other race.
Guntrah: Maybe half saber.
DM: It would be weird though for them to say half-orc and not specify what the other half was if it was Half dwarf?
Tavian: Yeah, no, most people say like, I'm half black. They usually don't have to say what the other half is.
Guntrah: Blasian?
DM: I see we're trying to get away from that stereotype and you're just pulling us right back in.
Tavian: I'm just saying it's safe to assume human.
Tito: I don't think it's ever safe.
Silas: I guess I just— so I always thought when things— you just said half, like if you're like a half-elf, you're usually like human and elf.
DM: Generally, yeah.
Tito: For today's purposes, you can be half human.
DM: But this is you, you do whatever you want. If you want to be half elf—
Tito: But does he gain the race benefits if he's another race?
Guntrah: No, he gets the half orc benefits.
DM: You can be half drow and half orc if you want, I don't care, but it's not going to change the mechanics of the character. That's true.
Guntrah: Yeah, if you do her half drow, you could be maybe a different— instead of being like greenskin, you could be like kind of a blue issue.
Silas: Oh, I like it.
DM: Which doesn't really make sense. If you're half elf, why do you get the benefits of the elven half? But if you're half orc and half elf, you You don't get the half-elf benefits, you only get the half-orc benefits.
Tavian: Oh, because darkvision and immunity to—
DM: Trancing. Yeah, yeah, I think we broke everything. Okay, sorry, continue.
Silas: Uh, for now we'll just assume I'm half-human because I don't know. Um, I'm half-satyr. Okay, so I'll have the bottom legs like he does and we'll both walk running around. They're like, no, that's— this is normal. That's what we'll tell everybody.
Silas: See?
Silas: Um, Let's see, uh, so I'm a male, I'm— my eyes are blue with one little fleck of brown somewhere, but you can't always find it, it moves around. Um, and then my height is— I put 5'10, I don't know, that sounds fine. Maybe 5'9, 5'9.75.
Tito: So it's a whole inch short.
Silas: I think it's too tall.
Silas: Too short.
DM: So in addition to you guys having your duel, do you also compare your heights and see Oh, if he's an inch taller than me, then he's noticeably—
Silas: Yeah, I'm 5'10, but, um, my hair is, uh, it's kind of silver and black, a little bit kind of, uh, a mixture, kind of salt and pepper. Yeah, kind of. Yeah. Um, my age is apparently like whatever it was that orcs kind of age quicker, so, uh, they're like considered like a full adult by like, what'd it say, 13 or 14 or something.
DM: Yeah, I think for what, for what we're doing and for most others, it's typically unless it specifies longer than humanoid, like longer than humans, then we'll just treat it as human. So we'll say, yeah, 15 to 16 is probably early enough for an orc.
Guntrah: Half-orcs live up to 75 years, aging adulthood at 14. Real orcs get 50 years, and then you're an adult at 12.
DM: So you gotta go through this all over again?
Silas: So I said I was 14. Yeah, I said I was 14.
DM: Okay, you're reaching midlife.
Silas: Because that's kind of like— that was kind of like early adult age, so I was like, okay, I'm 14. Okay, um, I weigh about 207 pounds. Uh, it depends if I just ate a whole bunch of food, then maybe a little bit more. Uh, let's see, personality traits says I have no personality traits, so I'm very bland. I guess I didn't put anything in there. Um, flaws— oh, I have no flaws either, so I'm perfect. So I mean, there's, there's some, there's some good things.
Tavian: No person—
Silas: nothing great about my personality.
Tavian: Your good things are your lack of bad things.
DM: Bad things or a lack of good things.
Silas: Yes, yes, there's really nothing interesting about me. Um, apparently I picked a picture that I kind of like, you know, like, oh, that kind of works. And I don't know, he's got something on his head. It looks like something purple, like a purple hat, uh, but I don't— can't tell, it kind of cuts off.
DM: The avatar does look like he's wearing a purple hat. I kind of like it.
Silas: Yeah, I kind of liked it too. So I was kind of like a wizardy— I kind of like the idea of a purple hat, so I'll go with the purple hat. I kind of like the look that he— I kind of based on that he's got like Multiple piercings on his ears. He's got these 2 little big teeth that come out of the bottom, kind of like a little tusky looking, like a kind of walrusy but not quite that big. But, um, and just like the look on his face, he's got a little goatee kind of thing, but he looks kind of, uh, I don't know, the picture I like because he looks a little bit, uh, fun-loving and a little bit goofy. So I was like, that, that might be kind of like my guy a little bit.
DM: So maybe your, your thing is The hat, because I feel like a lot of wizards, they just pull their hood up, right? Maybe they have like a silly little pointy cone hat thing, but no, you could just go with the classic. Like, yeah, it's not quite a fedora, but it's something in that family.
Silas: Yeah, it looks like it could be like a little, uh, that's what mine looks like, almost like a low top, almost like a glowing ice, like a low top hat.
DM: Oh yeah, let me see what yours look like.
Tito: And the weapons, although holding a staff does look kind of cool for Oh, okay.
Silas: Wow, your, your eyes are glowing.
DM: Yeah, why, why are your eyes glowing?
Tito: They're not glowing in normal life. That's just a very cool representation of what I look like. The 6-pack is real.
Silas: Yes.
DM: You don't wear a shirt, it's just 6-pack.
Tito: Yeah.
Silas: Well, now those legs are not as obvious, but you're like a goat boy.
DM: Yeah, you have like vines wrapped around your legs.
Tavian: I think he was just talking about like the physique.
Tito: Well, the horn— the way the horns look, the loincloth, and the Red cloak.
Silas: Oh yeah.
Tito: Red cloak too.
DM: If you really wanted to, you, for Halloween, you could pass as a Tiefling. Just get some red paint, you know, fix the legs.
Silas: So yeah, so that's pretty much my guy, I think. I think that's a decent description.
Silas: I don't know what else to say about him.
DM: Alrighty, sounds good. Hopefully that's— hopefully that's enough for Session Keeper to pick up all of our voices and get a good description of what our characters look like. Your characters look like. Um, I don't have a recap for last week, but, uh, I mean, we can just listen to it if you want, or we could just— did anybody have any questions? Sorry, not last week, 2 weeks ago.
Tito: I remember we fought a Bulette.
DM: Yeah, Voss kind of didn't—
Silas: Michael. Michael Bulette.
DM: I fought Michael Bulette.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Um, but then, yeah, so Voss told you about it, you guys went and investigated it, tracked it, battled it. Killed it, went back and reported in. All right, so fast forward 2 weeks. Uh, before we do the graduation ceremony, I did want to see how Tito's last performance went. Can you give me a performance check, please?
Tito: Absolutely.
Silas: What are you performing?
Silas: What was that?
Tavian: It's like a talent?
DM: Yes. Uh, his— the Bard's, uh, final thesis is a performance, not a Written examination. So, uh, you were preparing for it, practicing for it, when Viola Gossamer had approached you and given you that cloak that she made. So this is you delivering that performance. We're not going to make a deal of it, I just— I'm curious how well you did. So, yep.
Silas: What do you—
Guntrah: what do you do?
Tito: A play?
Silas: Whatever you want.
DM: You could perform something, you can sing, you can dance.
Tito: Are you using a luck point? I forgot to say.
Silas: Okay.
Guntrah: Well, I'm rolling.
Tito: It's a 22.
DM: 22.
Silas: Okay, wow.
DM: So yeah, your performance was— really all this is going to do is it's going to affect the opinion that people have of you as you're preparing for graduation. With the 22, it went very, very well. Probably considered one of the better, if not the best, in your bard class. Uh, so yeah, you knocked people's socks off.
Tavian: They—
DM: round of applause or standing ovation, whatnot. And then in general, people think highly of you for that performance.
Guntrah: Um, so you did a play?
Silas: What was the play about?
Tito: Various things, among other things. If you weren't there, I'm sure you— being a close friend of mine, you probably got an invite.
DM: Yeah, yeah, he's just making talk because he knows that it's being recorded.
Silas: I was there, it was good.
Tito: If you weren't there, then I was probably checking it out, you know.
Guntrah: I probably was.
Silas: I think it's a little too hype. I mean, I would say, uh, during the play I both laughed and cried, so I mean, it was really It was really well done.
Tito: That does not surprise me.
DM: Well, but he cried at the funny parts. Yeah, it was weird.
Tito: A performance of performances.
DM: Oh, it was— it a musical? You did some singing in there and some music?
Tito: I did a little bit, but more, uh, I'm leaning more towards storytelling.
Guntrah: It's like a tale of 2 cross lovers.
Tito: Yes, actually.
Guntrah: Where you play both parts, where you turn side to side.
DM: Yeah, yeah, I have a mask on one side and A different mask on the other side.
Tito: A tale as old as time. Smugglers and tea.
DM: Smugglers and tea? Oh no. Old wounds, old wounds.
Tavian: Different campaign.
DM: Uh, okay, so yeah, so that went well. Uh, moving forward to graduation, um, it's, it's well scheduled in advance. Everybody approaches again. You can, you can meet up out front if you want, or you can just meet each other at the ceremony, I assume you would probably all sit together. There's no seating structure. As graduates, you do have a whole separate spot where you sit, but within that, you're not organized and you can go in whichever order you want. Um, every year at graduation, they do have a guest speaker. So Headmaster Dao, she opens the ceremony herself. You've not interacted with her a whole lot. She generally stays in her office. Uh, It's almost all just administrative stuff all the time, so she's rarely out on campus, and when she is, she's usually brusque and dry and not really chatty.
Guntrah: What is she?
Tavian: Who is she?
Guntrah: What's she look like?
DM: She's the headmaster. Uh, I don't have a visual description of her. Hold on. Uh, she's a Tiefling, uh, late 40s. Uh, you don't know exactly how old she is, but that's what her appearance is. Uh, Tieflings are a little bit hard to tell their age. She's been the headmistress for 22 years.
Silas: She—
DM: yeah, like I said, her office is on the top floor of the main Academy complex, so you've never probably had ever had reason to be there. So again, she's just a background character for this because you really never interact with her, but she is at the front of the stage doing the graduation introductions. Um, She gives a speech about how on your first day here, uh, the goal of the academy was to make you formidable. Uh, and she says it— actually, you've probably heard this speech before because a lot of the students go to, uh, the previous, uh, graduating class ceremonies, and she doesn't really, um, go, you know, far away from her speech every year. So it's pretty bland. Uh, she does introduce The guest speaker, uh, it is a professor— I'm sorry, counselor Bertram Hollis. He is a member of the Silvery Moon Merchant Council. Um, he, again, you, you've probably heard a little bit about him before this graduation ceremony. Nobody has a whole lot of respect for him. He's a stout, humid, uh, human, um, a little porky even, uh, dressed pretty nicely. He comes up on stage, uh, Again, I don't want to spend too much time doing this. He kind of gives a very generic, bland graduation speech, um, does go over his time a little bit, and all the students, probably you included, are getting a little annoyed, like, oh my God, how long we've got to be here? It's getting hot and stuffy. Let's just get this on with. Um, so eventually though, he does— and let's see, um, yeah, so he ends his speech with, you know, each and every one of you has the power to make a real difference in this world. Um, and then it kind of again trails off, and there's a small smattering of applause, but it's really more of just a courtesy as he's— or maybe even gratitude for leaving the stage. Uh, and then, um, it's finally over. Headmaster Dao takes the stage again. Uh, she announces she's going to be reading the names off from all of this year's graduates. She asks you to please come up on stage. choose your graduation ring and then exit with your diploma, as it were. Um, so she starts going, uh, in order as you guys are seated. Eventually she gets to the 4 of you and, uh, she says, um, graduating this year from the— not Artificer— the Barbarians Academy, right? You're officially graduating from the Barbarians Academy? I am officially graduating from Okay, graduating this year from the Barbarians Academy, we have Guntrah.
Guntrah: Um, am I getting the diploma from her or the ring from her?
DM: Uh, so she has the ring and then she just has a graduate assistant who's handing out the diplomas next to her. So as you approach her, you see she has a, a case and it's a nice ornate mahogany case and it's got a glass roof and it's opened up to display a bunch of different rings, and they all look exactly the same with some minor differences. Some are like a gold, some of them are more of a silvery, uh, some are more of a pewter, but they all basically look the same, just slightly different metals. And the metals don't usually have an impact on the functionality of the ring. The rings do what they do, and they are labeled underneath each ring, and you can see them all. And which one would you like to pick?
Guntrah: Uh, I will lower myself down to look at her.
DM: She raises the case up a little bit so you can see it better.
Guntrah: And, uh, next to me is my little steel defendant fella.
DM: You're having him walk with you?
Guntrah: Uh, I think I do this time because it's kind of— I'm done and I'm kind of showing off that what, what a mistake.
DM: Uh, interesting that I was in the, uh, barbarian school versus the artificer's school.
Tavian: You hear like hushed whispers. Yeah.
DM: So yeah, so as you, as you walk across, you see a lot of the barbarians that are in attendance, uh, are almost a little annoyed or frustrated and maybe a little bit Not raging, but they're a little angry that they feel like they've been tricked or deceived, that you're— you don't appear to be a barbarian at all.
Guntrah: And at this point, I don't care because obviously I've graduated and I've done pretty well, and I've done it through means other than what they want. Um, I will look over the case and I will pick out the ring that has the Ring of Swimming, and, uh, mainly because I know I can't attune to most of these rings, and I can already fly, and I can already dash, and well, why not move faster underwater?
DM: Um, Headmaster Dao looks at you and she kind of smirks.
Silas: Is that—
DM: actually, we don't usually have a lot of Rings of Swimming. That's actually a very wise choice.
Silas: Good choice.
Guntrah: Movement's important. And then I'm gonna look out to the crowd, and do I see Bram Holder anywhere?
Tavian: You do.
DM: He is standing off to the side about 2/3 of the way back on the right.
Guntrah: Okay, I just kind of look at him. I don't give it much pause. I just, just a quick glance, just kind of showing who I actually am, and then I will move forward.
DM: Um, He turns his head away. He does not want to meet your gaze. He almost seems ashamed.
Silas: Getting kicked out of school.
Guntrah: I smirk and I walk on.
DM: Uh, collect your diploma, head off the other side of the stage, and Headmaster Dao returns. She says, uh, next we have Silas from the Bard College School of Evocation.
Tavian: I'm sorry.
DM: Not the Bard College, the wizard. Silas, the wizard from the School of Evocation.
Silas: Yes.
DM: And so do you walk up and see the rings?
Silas: I see the rings and I, um, so I kind of smile and go, hmm, kind of stroke my little beard thing and kind of go, uh, and I point to one of them. It's the Ring of Regeneration.
DM: Okay, she pulls out the Ring of Regeneration, hands it to you. She says, great selection.
Silas: Thank you, I definitely could use this.
DM: I hope you don't have to, but it's nice to know that you have it.
Silas: I will try not to cut my own limbs off just so I can see if it really works.
DM: Uh, she chuckles as you walk over and collect your diploma. All right, uh, next we have Tavian Stormnet. Uh, Paladin of the Oath of Glory.
Tavian: And I kind of march up. I've got my head up high, I'm exuding my aura of courage, just like super proud in the moment, and walk up. And I guess I see the rings in front of me, and as soon as I spot it, I grab the Ring of Ram.
DM: Ring of the Ram.
Silas: Oh, interesting.
DM: Okay, I know what you're gonna be doing later.
Silas: Um, good choice.
DM: And then you walk over, get your diploma, and exit the stage. Next we have from the Bard College, Tito, the College of Elegance.
Tito: As I walk up on the stage, I kind of throw my cloak to just kind of show my bare chest, you know. I also am going to cast—
Silas: You have a shirt on with this?
Tito: Prestidigitation. Um, just a shower of sparks emanates from—
Silas: Do you have a shirt on during this?
Silas: No, no, it's just bare chest and 6-pack.
Tavian: Wow.
Tito: I'm 23.
DM: Out of curiosity, what is your character's strength? Uh, that can't be strong to me. No, that is true. I am just curious, is he weak with a 6-pack? I don't know, we gotta establish this.
Tito: Strength is +0.
DM: So you have average strength. You're ripped, but you have average strength.
Tito: Correct.
Guntrah: Low body fat.
DM: Right, okay. Lean and cut, but weak.
Tito: So, you know, I'm kind of raising my hands. I've thrown all the best parties. This is my graduation, my farewell.
Tavian: Students are going wild.
DM: There does start to become a little bit of a cheer and uproar, especially given your performance, you know, which was just probably the day or two before. Um, however, Headmaster Dao does say, please, enough with the theatrics, let's just come over here.
Tito: Um, and then I will give a faint bow to her as well. And I am going to be choosing the Ring of Free Action.
DM: Very good choice. Uh, that's one of my favorites, actually.
Silas: Was it Free Action?
DM: Yes, Ring of Free Action.
Tito: Yeah, so no difficult terrain, and then I cannot be restrained, paralyzed, or have my movement reduced by magic.
DM: Yeah, um, very well. Uh, collect your diploma please, with no more theatrics if you don't mind. Uh, and then after you guys have all gotten your rings, um, you start heading back to where you were previously seated. Uh, she continues going down the list, uh, all of the other graduates that come after you do. Um, everybody roll a perception check for me please.
Tito: And then what is the—
DM: Or if you want to use your passive, if you're not trying to What's the attunement requirement? Is it different? Oh, great question. So I don't know who's put the rings on yet. Some people put them on immediately, some people—
Tito: that would be my— like, I would want to be putting—
Silas: yeah, I would.
Tavian: I got a 19 Perception.
Silas: Okay, wait, what are we doing, Perception?
DM: Yeah, but also, who put the rings on already?
Tito: I am putting my ring on.
Guntrah: Me too.
Silas: I did.
DM: Okay, so all 4 of you, um, excited? The rings, uh, attune to you immediately.
Guntrah: Natural 20.
DM: Natural 20. Okay.
Silas: 18.
DM: The rings attune to you immediately, and, uh, it was explained to you prior to the ceremony, you know, when they're discussing, uh, the rehearsal process, um, that when you put your rings on and they attune to you, they are— they can only be attuned to you. There's no ring sharing, there's no killing somebody to take their ring. It's attuned to you and only you, and it's bound to you.
Guntrah: And sell— if you want to sell it, you can't sell it.
Tavian: It's worthless.
DM: It's just a piece of metal.
Guntrah: Could you do deception to sell?
DM: I mean, you could— yeah, you could trick anybody into believing whatever you want, but that doesn't make it—
Silas: yeah.
Guntrah: Just because, I mean, down the road I want a different ring.
DM: Well, if you want a different ring, you're gonna have to go back and earn it.
Guntrah: Well, I mean, there's—
DM: you can purchase rings in this world, right? Yeah, you could, you could purchase most of these rings.
Silas: That is true.
DM: It wouldn't have the, the Academy seal on it, but—
Guntrah: I mean, I'm not gonna get rid of it just in case.
DM: Okay, uh, so you're all attuned to your rings. They are bound to you, uh, it's effective immediately.
Silas: So these are all in the inventory for search?
DM: Yeah, if you just go into manage inventory and you just— you can filter it just by clicking the ring, uh, button, and then you can just type in one word and it should pull it up because they're— with one exception, they're all officially part of the D&D lore and sourcebooks.
Tito: So, um, since this is celebratory and like the Majority of staff and things are here. I'm just going to use my passive perception, which is only a 13.
Silas: Okay.
Tito: Um, I think I would be actively trying to—
DM: You're more focused internally. You're enjoying— Especially if these guys are around, then it's kind of a celebration, you know, we're just in celebration, right? Yeah, for you, this moment is about you. It's not about the academy. So, um, the other 3, uh, you guys all got, I think, 18, 19, and nat 20, right?
Tito: Mm-hmm.
DM: So, um, all 3 of you notice as you are walking back to your seats, you see where the, the students are seated. You see there's a lot of friends and family here. Maybe you have a friend or a family here, I don't know. Um, but you also see that the faculty usually is seated on the ends of each of the rows, and then there's an overflow where some of the faculty are standing. Um, it doesn't take you very long to realize, for the 3 of you, not you, that Professor Voss is not here. And you've been to a number of these graduation ceremonies, and she's not missed any. She's in all of the, all of the, uh, Academy events and, you know, ceremonies. She's never not been in attendance, so this is highly unusual. You don't have to do anything about it, I'm just letting you know.
Guntrah: I would say with my perception check, I do spot my adopted parents, my gnomish adopted parents. Silas and Brynna in the crowd.
DM: So not Silas. I was gonna say Silas.
Silas: Is that me?
Silas: I'm your parent?
Tito: Cialis.
DM: Cialis.
Guntrah: Wait, what's your name?
Silas: Silas.
Guntrah: What did I say?
DM: Silas.
Silas: Silas.
DM: Well, it's S-I-L-A-S. That's his name.
Tito: I mean, they could have the same—
DM: you could have the same name.
Guntrah: Yeah, yeah, it's the same. That's a thing we have. Oh, there we go.
DM: NPC DC character named Silas. I had to change his name too.
Guntrah: Uh, named as my friend, my father Silas.
DM: All right, maybe that's why you were drawn to him.
Guntrah: And Brenna were happy to see me graduate.
DM: You couldn't see them very well though because they're so little.
Guntrah: They were so little, but I noticed their gnome hands and I gave it kind of a glance and a nod, and then I noticed that, uh, What's her name?
DM: Professor Voss.
Guntrah: Professor Voss wasn't there, and I'm like— and then I kind of nudge the 2 other folks, like, Voss isn't here.
Silas: I'm like, hmm, yeah, I kind of noticed that too. I'm like, I feel like every time we've ever been at graduation, she's always there.
Guntrah: She's been kind of maybe busy lately.
Silas: Maybe she's busy doing something.
Silas: Maybe. I wonder if she's okay.
Tavian: Seems odd that she didn't check in with her, see if she needs us to do anything.
Silas: Or just make sure she's okay.
Tito: Guys, what about the big party planned after?
Silas: We're still going to the party. What are you talking about?
Tavian: Yeah, we won't be late for the party.
Guntrah: All right, I gotta be a little late to the party.
Tavian: Fashionably late.
Tito: It's gonna be the biggest party of the year.
Silas: I know, I can't wait, man. It's gonna be awesome. Was it Phi Kappa Gamma Radiation Vape Pride?
Silas: Yeah, that's the—
DM: what is your fraternity?
Tito: Phi Beta Kappa.
Guntrah: Okay, I have some tuning to do on, uh, Little Ollie here.
Silas: Little Ollie.
Silas: And he goes— Is he a Wookiee?
Tito: His name is Ollie.
DM: Ollie is what I'm going with.
Guntrah: Ollie.
Tito: Okay, I like that actually for like a ball.
Silas: I like that actually.
DM: Call him Bally since he's ball-shaped.
Silas: Bally Ollie.
DM: Bally Ollie.
Guntrah: It's taking on Wally.
Tito: Oh, wow.
DM: Okay, so after she's done reading the names of all the graduates, she gives a very brief, you know, congratulations, congratulations to everybody. There is tremendous applause from everybody who's in attendance. There are a few members of the Bard College that are not in your graduating class who have prepared a little musical number to kind of end the ceremony, if you will. They start performing and you are allowed to get up and mingle, say hi to your friends and family, high-five each other, whatever it is you guys want to do. Um, yeah, so if there's anything you want to do now, you can.
Silas: Uh, do we get— do we have to like throw our hats up in the air or anything like that?
DM: If you're wearing a hat, sure. There's no official graduation hats.
Silas: It's not like that. Uh, well, I just kind of say to these guys, oh man, we did it! We actually made it through this crazy place. It's like, hey, what, what's next though? What are we gonna do next?
Tito: Well, we got missions to do.
Silas: No, we should check.
Tavian: We put our rings together and say, with our powers combined—
Silas: I say, Wonder Twin powers activate!
Guntrah: Uh, I'd actually like to— is it officially over?
DM: Yeah, the ceremony's— and you're allowed to mingle now.
Guntrah: Uh, I would like to go to, uh, I imagine there's a section of like the barbarian students or something.
DM: Uh, yeah, they're mostly sitting together. Yeah.
Guntrah: So I'd probably want to walk over there.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Uh, you walk over there, you see some of the students already have left, and you do see that— I forgot his name.
Guntrah: The head guy?
DM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, the head guy.
Guntrah: Um, His name is Brom Holder.
DM: Yeah, you see Holder's already left too. He's not around, you can't find him anywhere. But you do see that there are probably a dozen, maybe 2 dozen students left, and they're doing stupid things like punching each other, arm wrestling, stuff like that mostly.
Guntrah: It's gonna be like, uh, guys, I just want to come over and, uh, say goodbye. It's been an interesting Time with you guys and a pleasure to study with you.
DM: Uh, one of the ones who's just a year younger than you, uh, he steps forward and he says, actually, I think it's pretty cool what you did. I don't know, like, most of us can't do half the things you can do, and the fact that you were able to trick us for so long, that's pretty cool.
Guntrah: It wasn't easy, uh, passing these, uh, Studies, but I don't quite have the same abilities as all of you.
DM: Who, who said that? Come on, boys.
Silas: He's an idiot.
Guntrah: Uh, don't worry about him. I— but passing these things using a different set of skills was a challenge, and I do kind of appreciate you guys pushing me. Because it's, uh, helped me kind of grow in a different way. So, uh, perhaps this is not goodbye, but if it is, uh, thanks.
DM: Uh, it's all the same.
Tavian: I, I—
DM: you could definitely pass for one of us.
Tito: You carry yourself like a true barbarian.
Guntrah: And then I'll do, uh, the, you know, traditional greeting, which is like a grasp of the hand, the predator handshake with a headbutt. Um, with, with this fellow.
DM: What's your strength?
Silas: It's not bad.
Tito: It's not bad.
Guntrah: It's not great, but I'm also, uh, strength is +2.
DM: Okay.
Guntrah: But I also have a helm on and other things that help me.
DM: Right, right. Well, yeah, include all of those things. Give me a strength check because, you know, every time barbarians shake hands or do anything like that They're always trying to go outdo their— the other person.
Guntrah: So my intelligence usually replaces because of my gear?
DM: In this case, oh well, yeah, okay, the gear, yeah, would apply.
Guntrah: So I'll do an intelligence check. Yeah, uh, 28.
DM: Okay, so yeah, it's, it's obviously artificially, you know, accentuated or whatever the word would be. It's not real strength. But to, to them it doesn't— they don't notice it. To them it seems real.
Guntrah: They're dummies.
DM: And so, yeah, so you, you do the, the barbarian grasp handshake thing and you kind of throw him around a little bit in the process. I mean, he's, he's a strong dude, but you kind of throw him around a little bit in the process. He just kind of shakes his head and he's like, goddamn it.
Guntrah: Yeah, well, good luck to you guys. Now pat him on the back and I'm gonna turn my back and walk back to my friends.
DM: Yep, good luck to you. They go back to wrestling each other on the ground.
Silas: So then I go over and like— so my parents are there, okay? And so I go over to them and I kind of give them a hug and, and I say— and I kind of tell them, I say, hey, you're leaving Rosgaunt safe.
Silas: Oh well.
DM: Well, first tell us a little bit about your parents.
Silas: Uh, well, you know, so they're really excited and proud that I, that I made it through and got You know, so the—
DM: you know, which parent— which parent's an orc? Um, is your dad—
Silas: yeah, my dad is.
DM: Your dad's an orc and your mom's a human?
Silas: Sure.
DM: Okay, we'll see.
Tito: Yeah, what are you—
Silas: what are you trying to imply?
Guntrah: So basically Shaq going down on a little—
Silas: So, uh, so anyway, I kind of tell them like And so they're like, you know, just tell them they're proud of me and all kind of stuff. And I, and I'm like, yeah. And I say, hey, uh, actually though, I just gotta— I want to introduce you to somebody because I wouldn't have made it through without this guy. So I said, Tavian, come over here a minute. So he comes over and I kind of tell him, I say— and actually I tell him, and I get a little teary-eyed, and I kind of tell him, I'm like, yeah, early on when I got here, actually kind of because, you know, I got to come here because we won that lottery thing. And so a lot of the kids were giving me a lot of crap that I didn't deserve to be here. And I really wanted to come home a couple times. I didn't tell you guys all this stuff because I didn't want to bother you with it, but, you know, I almost left that first year. I mean, I wanted to so many times just call you and say, just come pick me up, because I was so frustrated. But Tavian encouraged me to stay on, and, you know, just always encouraged me that I can do it, and that if I didn't stick around, that I would always wonder what could have been. So, you know, I kind of give him a hug, and I have some tears coming down my eyes, and just say— Oh wow, I'm actually getting teary-eyed for real because I'm so stupid and so emotional easily. I've had a problem lately getting emotional easily. But anyway, um, so that's so dumb. I'm an idiot. But anyway, uh, so anyway, I get, I get emotional and, um, like I am right now. Uh, I'm just, I'm a good actor.
Tavian: Yeah, put some armor on.
Silas: And so then I'm— and so then, uh, yeah, so then I kind of had like that feeling that I was an imposter, but he made me feel like I should stay. And so of course now I'm super glad I did and I accomplished it. And so I'm You know, like super happy.
Silas: And so I think they are too.
Tavian: And so I say, yes, Silas, you're part of the crew.
DM: Uh, so yeah, your, your dad, which I don't know if we got a name, uh, your dad reaches his big ogre hand out to Tavian.
Guntrah: Orc hand.
Tavian: I grab it confidently.
DM: What did I say?
Silas: Ogre.
DM: Oh, I'm sorry, not ogre, orc hand. Uh, but he kind of like changes his mind at the last minute, and when you go to grab his hand, he actually pulls you in and gives you a hug. He's like, thank you for helping. He's a, he's a man of few words. He doesn't say that. And obviously, uh, she's— Silas's mom is the one who's also getting emotional and teary-eyed, and she's just— yeah, we're very grateful. Thank you for, for your help in all of this.
Tito: I too will be finding my parents because I am expecting some sort of graduation reward, usually in the form of money, which is a tradition among Uh, we did not discuss this ahead of time, but we can roll for it.
DM: We could.
Tito: I mentioned it last time.
DM: Um, okay, so it seems— tell me about your family first.
Tito: Well, I mean, as you know, so I've been here for the last 5 years, 23. So I shipped off when I was 18. Um, obviously family is Very wealthy, um, but not flashy. So, um, ostentatious. I've heard growing up— I went to a probably a private school, and I've heard things about my father. I don't know exactly what he does other than import-export. So, expected that upon graduation I have the option to go back and join the family business. So there could be, you know, some illicit or illegal activities involved, but I don't know. I've only heard hearsay.
Tavian: But—
DM: So you're, you're not sure if your parents want you to run the family business or not?
Tito: It is open to me. So, you know, my dad has sheltered me from it until I'm of age. And then it's giving me the option, I would assume.
DM: Okay.
Tito: And he's never directly came out and told me exactly how he does.
DM: How wealthy are your parents, and do you have any siblings?
Tito: No siblings.
DM: Okay, so you're an only child?
Tito: Correct.
DM: Both parents are Satyrs?
Tito: Correct.
DM: And how wealthy do you— how wealthy do you think?
Guntrah: I mean, how— In terms of money today?
Tito: I'd say probably like overall net worth of like probably between $5 to $10 million. Oh, so not like Bill Gates.
DM: Not extravagant.
Tito: But if we're, you know, I'm thinking Tony Soprano rich. Like, that's exactly what I'm—
Guntrah: All right.
DM: So yeah, if you had said a bigger number, then I would have said your parents aren't here. At least, at least your dad's not. Maybe your mom would be, but your dad wouldn't be.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: But because you brought that number down a little bit. Yeah, sure. Okay. Your parents are here. Uh, you know, they, they are excited to see you graduate, especially since you're their only son, only child. Uh, yeah, they, uh, they greet you happily.
Silas: They're—
DM: you can tell that they're, they're having a nice moment.
Silas: Yes.
DM: Um, did you want to say anything to them?
Tito: I'm just like, you know, I did it.
DM: Yeah, we saw tons of friends here.
Guntrah: Are you a Van Wilder type person? Uh, So you've been here longer than you should, or no?
Tito: No, no, I'm pretty on track. Um, I would say I was pretty good.
Guntrah: Like, not, not, not a Victorian, but not a slacker.
DM: Yeah, I mean, not Victorian, but maybe, maybe they arrived a day before and they saw your performance too. Yeah, and that, that's probably what would be expected in that situation. Um, so yeah, your mom says, yeah, you certainly did it. Um, Do you not own any shirts anymore? Did you lose all of the shirts that we sent you with? Mom, please, please. You need another one? Is that what you're asking for?
Tito: I have plenty of shirts. Listen, I'm glad you guys came, but I gotta get back to my friends.
Silas: Okay, okay. Well, you might have—
DM: we haven't talked about it, but there's an expectation you take over for your father, and your father is just kind of standing there Yes, yes, I have some stuff I have to take care of.
Tito: When I get back home, we'll discuss it.
DM: Are you not coming back with us?
Tito: Not right now.
DM: Okay, I guess we'll go get the wagon.
Tito: Yeah, I got some stuff I gotta take care of, Mom. I'll be back. When I'm back, I'll let you guys know.
DM: Are you okay on food, money?
Silas: Do you need anything?
Tito: I mean, I was expecting a graduation gift.
DM: I was expecting to give you that back at the house.
Silas: You're like, oh, I'll go home real quick.
DM: Sneaky mom.
Silas: Dang it, sneaky.
Tito: All right, I'll get it right.
DM: We have a party prepared for you. We know how much you like your parties.
Tito: I can't make it. I'm throwing my— you know, I— how would you guys not know I'm throwing a party?
Silas: Yeah, how far would I think you can—
Tito: we can pregame it.
Silas: Pregame your graduation party. Well, we go to the graduation party and then go to the other after-party.
Tito: You guys can come.
Silas: Your party can be after.
Guntrah: Yeah, how far is— how far do your parents live from the university?
Tito: So I— well, I— it's Baldur's Gate is where my dad's merchant—
Guntrah: How far is that?
DM: Oh, it's, it's a ways. It is 2 weeks, 2 weeks on a decent wagon.
Silas: What?
Silas: I guess we're not going from one to the other.
DM: Yeah, there are other ways to go there faster, and maybe your parents travel with those other ways. Sometimes.
Tito: I'll stay in touch, and if you can get me my present, it might help me. I've, I've got some things lined up for me that might help me.
DM: I still don't know why you picked this academy on the other side of the world. Like, there were plenty of options down here.
Silas: This is the one I wanted to go to!
DM: Come on, guys, I gotta go.
Tito: If you want to come to the party, you can, but I gotta get back with my friends.
Silas: All right.
DM: I know we would be, uh, what do you say, cramping your style, so We'll just— we'll see you when you get home.
Silas: How's that?
Tito: Love you guys. Yep.
DM: Uh, after your mom turns, uh, your dad kind of winks at you and he hands you a sack of gold. You haven't counted it, you don't know what's in it, but he did it purposely without your mom knowing. Get out of here.
Silas: Uh, okay.
DM: Um, you guys like tap hooves or something?
Silas: I have normal No hands, dude.
DM: Yeah, why use your hands when you've got hooks? Uh, okay, so he gives you the gold and you walk away back to your friends. Okay, anything?
Tavian: Yeah, so Tavian doesn't have family, so— but he walks out in class of, you know, graduating bros and just like, you know, wishes everyone well. Um, very charming. Um, I picture him like, who is that dumb football player on the roast of Tom Brady that they ripped?
Tito: Rob Gronkowski?
DM: Yeah, that's, that's kind of the personality.
Tavian: Or like how people perceive him. Like, he's a bro, but everyone knows he's like not smart.
Silas: Yeah, yeah.
DM: Um, but then I found my way to Professor Orvin. Yeah, Commander Orvin is there. Uh, he's kind of waiting for you. Um, and he's, uh, he gives you a good firm handshake and he says, you know, I, I think you're bound for very good things. I think you're gonna achieve a lot of glory. I think as long as you stay focused and, and hold to your oath, I think you're gonna do great. And don't forget, I owe you another story.
Tito: Oh, that's right.
Tavian: And, and I'm still shaking his hand. I just tell him, thank you for everything you've taught me about the Oath of Glory, and I'll take it to heart and protect my crew, and we'll do glorious things.
DM: Definitely, definitely. Uh, again, one more good firm handshake. Uh, and then, uh, he kind of quietly, very quietly and stoically, just turns around and leaves.
Guntrah: Okay. I feel remiss if I don't see my actual parents and talk to them.
DM: Oh yeah, yeah, you can do that.
Guntrah: So I go find my 2 gnomish adopted parents.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Uh, Silas.
Guntrah: Silas and Brenna are sitting there Like, you know, almost like children in the chairs.
DM: And they're, they're 3 foot tall, right?
Guntrah: They're gnomes.
DM: Yeah, that's like 3 foot, I think.
Tito: Gnomes are smaller than that.
Guntrah: I mean, that's—
DM: I think that's the tallest a gnome can be. It's like 2 foot 6. It's like 2 foot 6 to 3 foot, I think, is the range.
Guntrah: And, uh, I lean down and go, Pops? Mom?
Silas: Yeah, yeah.
DM: And they could barely talk.
Tito: I did it.
Guntrah: You did?
DM: Um, this is, this is a great day. This is a great day.
Silas: Yeah.
Guntrah: Uh, you know, funny enough, Dad, that, uh, I actually have a friend with the same name as you, and he's a half-orc. Isn't that weird?
DM: His name's Silas?
Guntrah: Yeah. I don't know. That's strange, right?
DM: That is strange. That's a gnomish name. Why would he have a gnomish name?
Tavian: I don't know.
Guntrah: He's got an orc father and a Well, a mother that's human.
Silas: As far as you know.
Guntrah: As far as I know. I've never met them really, but, uh, it is weird.
DM: Maybe when this is over we'll go find them. There's not too many orcs here. I think I see one over on the other side. Maybe we'll go talk to him after this and get some introductions.
Guntrah: That'd be a funny thing.
DM: That would be interesting. Um, you know, obviously we're not your real parents.
Guntrah: I mean, that's— Well, yeah, obviously, yeah. But still weird. Uh, but there's something I want to talk about.
Silas: Sure.
Guntrah: I know we talked about that, you know, I was going to come back to the shop, right?
DM: Yes, yeah, in fact, I just finished making a nice 4.5-foot-tall shelf. It's way taller than I can barely even reach it.
Guntrah: Yeah, well, I mean, I'd like to get back there eventually, but if I'm honest, I think I need more time.
DM: Oh, okay, I understand.
Guntrah: My friends and I, I think, might try to do some, uh, other things. We have some opportunities through the university, and I kind of want to get more experience out in the world before going back.
DM: Okay, uh, just promise me you'll be safe. I mean, your mother told me that this was a probability, but I—
Guntrah: Are you guys all right without me coming back? You'll be fine? The shop's doing all right?
DM: We've got dozens of years left. We'll be fine.
Silas: Shop's gonna be fine.
Guntrah: Well, dozens of years left? What do you mean by that?
DM: I mean, we're healthy. We're, we're fine.
Guntrah: Well, you're gonna outlive me anyways.
DM: I thought we agreed never to talk about that.
Guntrah: No, I mean, it's just a fact, and unfortunately that's all I deal with.
DM: I mean, obviously when I said I've done— I meant we have dozens of years left together, not me specifically.
Guntrah: Okay, all right, well, I'm happy you guys understand, but I kind of want to see more of this world before going back.
DM: I, I get it. You're, you know, you have to experience all there is to experience in life. You can't tie yourself down.
Guntrah: I promise I'll come back before I'm an old man.
Tito: I hope so.
Guntrah: Um, and I'll figure out a way to get back and communicate with you.
DM: Oh yeah, that, that reminds me, um, here. And then your father reaches in, he pulls out a stone, he's like, I You already obviously know what this is, but—
Guntrah: Oh yeah, speaking stone.
DM: Yeah, I meant to send it to you like a year ago and I lost it. You know how scattered I am in my workshop. But anyway, I found it just in time before we left, and I, I wanted to make sure that if, you know, you have— you always have a way to reach us.
Guntrah: All right, well, thanks, thanks, Pops. And then, uh, all right, well, uh, are you guys hanging around? Are you guys going back?
DM: Oh, we have to go back. I can't leave the shop closed for that long.
Guntrah: Yeah, I understand. And then I was like, I actually have a party to attend later. I know, surprise.
DM: Look at you!
Guntrah: I've made some friends and, uh—
DM: That's, that's great, that's great.
Guntrah: I'm trying not to spend all my time tinkering. Oh, also, oh, did he say you graduated from the Barbarians school?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Um, I thought you went to officer training.
Guntrah: Well, because I'm an orc, they placed me there and, uh, Hey, I made it through.
Silas: You figured it out. Good, good for you.
Guntrah: Look, I figured most things out thanks to you. And then, uh, I'm gonna go, also look, I figured out little Ollie. And then like my little robot just—
DM: And it's probably the same height as them or taller.
Guntrah: Like, I'm like, so he'll take good care of me too.
DM: That's, that's almost the same design I showed you years ago when we were practicing.
Guntrah: Yeah, I actually made it. Took 3 and a half years, but I made it.
DM: That's Very impressive.
Silas: I, I'm—
DM: you got around to doing something I couldn't do. That's, that's great. Well, I had a—
Guntrah: I had some help. I had some help from an Artificer teacher that kind of, uh, helped me out. That's, that's good.
Silas: Every—
DM: everybody needs a little bit of help from time to time. You should never turn away anybody that offers to help you.
Guntrah: Well, I never would. Um, what's the name of that professor again? Oh, it's my notes.
DM: I'll pull it up.
Silas: I'll pull it up.
DM: Maybe I don't have it written down. I thought I did.
Guntrah: Professor, uh, Tavel.
DM: Yes, Professor Tavel.
Guntrah: Is he here?
DM: I, I have no idea who that is. I'm sorry.
Guntrah: No, no, I'm asking.
DM: Oh, you're asking me? Uh, yeah, he's— well, he was with some of the other artificers. You'd have to go check and see if he's still there.
Guntrah: So I'm gonna look towards Tavil's direction. Okay, see if he meets eyes with me or not.
DM: Um, yeah, we'll say he's still there. Yeah, he's waiting.
Guntrah: Does he meet my gaze?
DM: Uh, he is currently in conversation with a couple of his lower students.
Guntrah: Okay, so I'm gonna look to my, my father. I'm gonna say, yeah, uh, that professor He recognized my stuff. The barbarians are so stupid, they don't realize that I'm using enchanted equipment to kind of complete my task.
DM: I don't think you should pigeonhole all barbarians as such. I'm sorry, yeah, you're right. I mean, just like pigeonholing orcs as always being brutes, right?
Guntrah: You're right, you're right, I'm sorry. Uh, but yeah, Tavil recognized that I was more capable and he helped me out through this, so maybe you can talk to him.
DM: Yeah, you talking about that guy over there? And he points to Tavil.
Tito: He looks really familiar.
Silas: Um, I think I read a book that had his photo in the back. Possibly.
Guntrah: He's brilliant.
DM: Yeah, I think I know who that is, actually. Uh, he's, he's pretty, pretty famous for a lot of, uh, inventions about 40 or 50 years ago.
Guntrah: Hmm, yeah, he's, he's kind of got me through this, so—
DM: You picked a good one.
Guntrah: Maybe I can introduce you to him.
Silas: Oh, sure.
Guntrah: Um, and so at that point I'll introduce him to Taval.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Uh, yeah, uh, they walk over, uh, and then your father, yeah, he's like, uh, I'm sorry, Taval, is that, is that your name? And the guy's like, yeah, do you know me? And I'm making me have a conversation with myself. So yeah, so they, they meet, uh, and, and your father is, is obviously a little bit starstruck. having, you know, meeting a famous artificer, you know, who's got a lot of—
Guntrah: A dwarven artificer, by the way.
DM: Oh, he's dwarven.
Silas: Okay, I didn't—
DM: I couldn't remember that.
Silas: Yes.
DM: Um, they're not quite eye to eye, but there's— they're closer than you are. Um, but yeah, so—
Guntrah: So I'm standing way above, just like—
Silas: You're like—
DM: yeah, so yeah, Tavil's, uh, he's happy to meet somebody who knows who he is and kind of a little surprised that you didn't know who he was, given that your father, you know, knew who He was. And, um, he's like, I, uh, yeah, I, I, I did what I could, you know. He needed some things. I recognized this talent a mile away. I mean, look at Ollie here, he's brilliant. And your dad kind of chimes in, he's like, it's actually, you know, part of my design. He just finished it, you know, exactly like we planned. Uh, he's like, this is a great piece of work. Uh, yeah, your, your son's a very talented artificer. I'm sure he's, he's gonna He's gonna go places, he's gonna do things. And you can see a little bit of, a little bit, you know, of, uh, sadness in your father's not knowing that you're not going to be coming back to his workshop, but, uh, recognizing that, you know, you're, you're your own person, you have your own path, you're going to be excited to go on your adventures. And he realizes that it's the best thing, uh, so he's, you know, kind of withdraws a little bit from the conversation with Tavil, and he's like, you know, Uh, thanks again for, for taking him under your wing.
Silas: I appreciate it.
Guntrah: Yeah, I'll extend the hand to Tavil and then handshake slash barbarian pull in, which, you know, like 3 times his height almost. So yeah, well, I'm bent down. I'm like, yeah, yeah, thank you for everything. And then I'll turn to my parents and pick them both up and hug them and be like, all right guys, I have to go, but I'll be in touch.
DM: Yes, um, don't forget the stone. We'll try to reach out to you at least once a day.
Guntrah: I don't forget anything, Dad.
Tito: I'll move on.
Silas: I got it.
Tavian: All right, I do want to just add one quick thing, not to dive into it, but so I didn't have any family that I was expecting to come, but to my delight and surprise, like 6 people from my Fisher Village showed up and surprised me. So I just went over there, see him, the guy that took me in.
DM: They were the 6 people cheering the loudest when you were crossing the stage to get your Ring.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: And it was— you could tell it was very southern, you know? Yeah, like that. They had definitely had a little bit of an accent.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: And there are a lot of people too.
Tavian: Yeah.
Guntrah: Is that like adopted family or just—
Silas: No, rescued.
Tavian: Yeah, just kind of landed in this village, learned to fish, and they kept—
Silas: and then I got the scholarship to come to the academy and rest is history.
Guntrah: What's your character's name again?
Silas: Tavian.
Guntrah: Hell of a job, Tavian.
Silas: Geez, that's the most impressive.
DM: I know him.
Guntrah: I know it is. Look at us, we old guys. He was a graduate.
Tito: Exactly.
Silas: He done graduated.
Guntrah: Goddamn. Well, well, you gonna come fish with us again?
DM: You gotta use that paper as bait.
Guntrah: You got any spells to get some more fish?
Silas: Yeah, I saw they give you that fancy ring. Wonder if that would catch some fish. Yeah, put that down here in the water, gonna be sparkly.
Silas: They're gonna grab that thing.
Guntrah: We're gonna have a—
Tavian: all right, we're about to—
DM: I was gonna do another one. I was like, nah, it's over. Oh man, that That was fun. Uh, okay, so yeah, you have your, your fishermen friends. They're all there, they're excited. They don't usually get out of, out of town a whole lot. When they do, it's usually just to get supplies, so it's nice to have an excuse to get dressed up, go out, and, you know, be happy about something like that.
Guntrah: We got our overalls.
Silas: No, they have shoes on.
Guntrah: We got shoes on and overalls with no holes in them. I got my good fish waders on.
DM: There was a chance you knew this was gonna happen. There was a chance. Okay, so, um, you guys all, you know, do your meet and greets, say goodbye to every, you know, your friend or your family and friends, um, and, uh, and then you kind of just naturally congregate together as the crowd starts to dwindle a little bit. Um, it's, it's still late afternoon, so there's plenty of time to do whatever you want.
Silas: So I kind of say, uh, hey, I think we should go check on Professor Voss. That just seems so weird. I mean, You know, I agree. Something's off.
Tito: Party's not till later, so we do have time.
Guntrah: Before we do that, I have to take a piss.
Silas: Oh well, yeah, that happens.
DM: All right, so Guntrah— Gun goes to take a piss. What do you guys do?
Tito: We're gonna go to Professor Voss's.
Silas: I go stand really close to him in the bathroom, right behind him, just so he feels really uncomfortable.
DM: Just not— you don't leave the one stall gap, you just do next to him, or you're literally behind him?
Silas: It's like a urinal. I'm standing Right behind him.
DM: You're using the same urinal between his legs?
Silas: I'm not, I'm not going. I'm just standing there. Oh, you're just standing there. Yeah, just to make him feel really like, like, hey, I can't go if you're standing there. I'm like, I know, it's, it's a mean thing to do. Anyway, no, I don't know.
Tito: I think we'll head to Professor Voss's office. All right, so we'll wait for Gun to finish, considering she left us a clue last time that we were there.
Silas: That's true.
Guntrah: Yeah, we might need to recap that.
Silas: Oh yeah, what was, uh, yeah, I don't remember.
DM: Oh, the note from last time?
Tito: It was just a note, like—
DM: Oh, what you read?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Oh, or performed, rather? Yeah, he performed it.
Tito: And I mean, she, she left it for us, right?
Silas: Right, right, right.
Tito: Okay.
Tavian: But it—
DM: oh yeah, it was just talking about the 3 incidents within the last year that all had to do with essentially misplaced magical artifacts that caused some sort of disruption or chaos at the university that was clearly artificial, you know, these weren't accidents, and there's a pattern. And Tito didn't think that there— he thought maybe the, the Bulette was adding to that pattern, which she disagreed with.
Silas: Oh yeah.
Tito: Well, my, um, apparently Gun has a large gun. Where we were thinking of investigating Professor Voss's office.
Guntrah: Why is she not there?
DM: Well, she's not around, and last time Well, we went to her office.
Tito: She left us a note to, you know, kind of detail some stuff for us. So if she's not there, that would be my first place to look for her.
DM: Let's go check it out.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: So you head, uh, towards where her office is. Um, you, you get there. There's, there's a couple faculty and staff kind of going back to work essentially. Um, and the students are all basically looking for the best parties already. Um, you guys get to her building, you go up, I think it's the 2nd or 3rd floor, I forget which. Uh, you find her office, you see her door is shut, it is not open.
Tito: I will reach for the— Oh yeah, first.
Silas: Yeah, knock.
DM: Uh, she opens the door. She says, yes, yes, what, what can I do for you?
Tavian: I say, you missed graduation.
DM: I did, yes.
Tavian: Are you okay?
DM: No, I'm not. Come in quick.
Tito: And we shuffle in.
DM: So you go inside, she shuts the door behind you, and she says, ah, I— as you know, I've been trying to get to the bottom of these things. Um, I just, I just paid a visit to— oh, I forgot his rena— it was Silas Morn. I forgot I renamed him. I forget what I changed his name to. Hold on a second.
Silas: That's a Silas.
Guntrah: Why did you choose that name?
Silas: I wonder. I don't know how everybody else chose names like that.
Tito: It wasn't—
DM: he, he changed it.
Tito: It was Zerod. It was.
DM: Yeah, it was Zerod.
Guntrah: Silas, Silas, Silas.
Silas: Um, I think there's something with this. Everyone's been renamed Silas.
Tito: Uh, this could be a clue.
DM: Well, I gotta— I got a new name here somewhere. Osric. Okay, so, uh, she's like, I, I went to the provisions office, I've been trying to work with Osric— I'm sorry, um, Mr., Mr. Morn. Um, he's just not being very cooperative and I don't want to break any school rules. Um, and you know— What's that?
Guntrah: What's his position?
DM: He's the, the guy who runs the provisions office where you could get your 2, 2-a-year health potions. I think your previous characters had an interaction with him, but these characters have not had any actual interactions with him. I mean, you have had interactions with him, but we haven't called it out. You've probably been getting potions and other, you know, supplies from him each year, so you know who he is. You've worked with him before. He's a very, very by-the-book, rigid, you know, rules must be followed kind of guy. And Voss also is very much a we follow the rules except for when it relates to her side gig, right?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: But she also— she's in an important position at the school being in charge of the Ninth Thesis, and she can't lose that position, which of course is tied to her actual job, you know, which is the administrator of the midterm facilities and offices. So she's not wanting to break the rules. She's trying to go within the rules to investigate this, and he's stonewalling her, not because he seems like a bad guy, but because he just— Doesn't think that he's at fault for anything. He thinks that everything's perfectly fine because the items are— he swears that they don't have paperwork on these things. They, they didn't go through his provisions office. She's, you know, off base, way off base, and looking for them there. Um, so Voss explains this to you, and, uh, she's like, I really hate to ask you this, and, and you, you must know that this isn't something I would condone Ordinarily. But is there any chance you guys might be able to look in the provisions office on my behalf?
Silas: I was going to suggest that, actually.
DM: I mean, it obviously cannot have come from me. If you get caught, I'll do my best to make sure that it— you know, you're graduates now, so what's the worst they're going to do, right? You've already got your rings. They can't kick you out of school. But, um, obviously they can hold grudges and they can Or are we graduate assistants then?
Silas: You know, that's—
DM: let's call it that. Yeah, let's call it that. What's your character's name again?
Tito: Tito.
DM: Do you think we can do this before the party?
Tito: Yeah, I'm pretty sure I can cast Invisibility.
DM: That's exactly why I think you, you might be able to have more success than me.
Silas: I can do that too.
Silas: I forget your guy's name too. Tavian.
Silas: I used to have a cat named Tavian, so I can always remember that one pretty easy because it's almost like Tavian.
Silas: Uh, let's see.
DM: Um, so I, I, I, again, I hate, I hate telling you this, but, um, just to— he works all the time. He's, he lives in that building. There's almost no way to avoid him. But we'll be able to get in.
Tito: You can count on us, Professor.
Guntrah: You supposed to get in there, or—
Silas: Yeah, what do you— what do you mean?
DM: I don't— I don't know. That's the problem. I don't know. There might be nothing there. There might— there might not be any evidence. There might be no paper trail. There might be absolutely nothing to find there.
Guntrah: Are we investigating, or are we just talking?
Silas: We're trying to get something for you.
DM: I've talked to him 10 times in the last 10 days. It's not doing any good. He won't let me see any of the— any of the, uh, paperwork. He won't show me any audits or his books. I don't— he's just not being very cooperative.
Guntrah: You know, is there more than one way in?
DM: That's what I was gonna say. There's, there's the main entrance that you guys use, the shop, and then there is a back room where he keeps things, and then there's his living quarters. His living quarters enters into the back room or the warehouse, and then it also enters in the shop, and there is a, a door for essentially for, um, transports and, you know, and drop-offs. And it's— he's, as far as I know, he's got the only key. Um, and so there's— there is another door in the back that, that you could use, but you'd have to figure out how to get in.
Silas: So you're not— you don't necessarily need us to procure anything for you, you just want us to like figure out if there's something in there that needs securing, then absolutely.
DM: But I, again, I don't know what you're going to find.
Silas: I don't know. So you're just trying to figure out what's coming in and out of there, basically?
DM: There, there could be another one of these mysterious artifacts, and— or, or maybe there's, you know, like, like I said, a, a logbook of, of all of the incoming, uh, things. I, I don't know how he runs his, his office, so I, I don't know what to find, what you might find, uh, but just see what you can see, and, and if it's nothing, then it's nothing and I'm barking up the wrong tree.
Tavian: Tavian looks at, um, Gun and asks Do you have another one of those? And pointing at the speaker stone I see on your side or something.
Guntrah: Uh, just one.
Tavian: Like, maybe if we had another, we could communicate if we need to. I'm not that sneaky, so I will be standing guard.
Guntrah: Maybe not standing guard, maybe distracting. Maybe 2 of us go in the front. Get him into the front of the shop and the other 2 go in the back.
DM: Yeah, uh, if you want, I could, I could just bring him out to the shop and I can talk to him, but I mean, I could probably only keep his attention for 2 minutes, 3 minutes.
Silas: Oh, you can keep it longer than that.
Tito: That's fine, I can cast—
DM: Do you actually say that to her?
Silas: Yeah, I wink, I kind of laugh.
DM: She blushes, she's like, well, we just graduated, so we're, we're a little Oh no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, she shuts it down.
Guntrah: Do you have Greater Invisibility?
Tito: I have Greater Invisibility and I have Telekinesis, so if you tell me what we're looking for, I can either sneak in or I can—
DM: What if you can't get past the lock?
Tito: Teleport? Well, that's— somebody else is gonna have to get into that lock.
Silas: I don't know.
Guntrah: What is, what is, um, Maybe sleight of hand.
DM: To do what?
Guntrah: To break a lock.
DM: To break a lock?
Guntrah: Or at least get in a lock.
DM: If you're trying to pick it, yes, you need lockpicking tools, and then it would be a sleight of hand check. If you're just trying to break the lock, then it would just be a pure strength check.
Silas: Yeah, you can't craft this like a lockpick.
DM: He can, he's an artificer.
Guntrah: I can craft a lockpick.
DM: It takes how long?
Tito: Gun, you can't craft us a lockpick, dude?
Silas: I thought you were a tinkerer.
Tavian: I said no, he's a barbarian.
DM: I just saw.
Tito: You're telling me you don't have any tools to get us in that door? And you're a little—
Guntrah: I can make a tool.
DM: Um, Uh, Voss goes back over her, her desk and she pulls out a drawer and she gets this little leather wrap-up, like rolled-up kit. She's like, I confiscated this 3 weeks ago. She hands you a thing and you unroll it and it's metal lockpicking tools.
Guntrah: I was gonna say, I have the right tool for the job.
DM: Again, this doesn't come back to me, and just dispose of it when you're done, please. Yeah, you have that. You have that.
Guntrah: I can basically make any tool non-magical.
Tito: But how long does it take?
Guntrah: It takes an—
DM: I think it's an hour.
Guntrah: An hour?
DM: Yeah, so she just gave one to you.
Tito: Okay, well, we'll use— well, thanks, we'll use this. Can we keep this?
DM: Just get rid of it. I don't want to see it anymore.
Guntrah: But I'm not proficient. I'm not like good at those tools.
DM: Well, without, without the tools, you couldn't attempt it at all. With the tools, at least you have a shot.
Tito: Yeah, I don't—
Silas: sleight of hand, is that what it is?
Silas: Mm-hmm.
Silas: I got +1, nothing big.
Guntrah: Um, okay, I'm actually really good at finding clues and stuff.
Silas: Um, as long as you have Scooby-Doo with you.
Silas: I got Scooby-Doo with me, which is Ollie.
Guntrah: Which is Ollie.
DM: Ollie, Ollie Doo.
Silas: Ollie, Ollie Doo.
DM: Okay, when, when do you think you can get out to distract him?
Tito: You should have a party to get to later.
DM: I kind of think we're done with classes. I have nothing else to teach. I can go whenever.
Guntrah: I kind of think that you need to go with her. I feel like with your charisma, with your ability to talk, you can keep him more engaged.
DM: You don't think I could engage him for 2 minutes?
Silas: 2 minutes isn't that much time.
Silas: No, we need more time.
DM: How much time do you need?
Guntrah: 5, 6 minutes.
Silas: I—
DM: yes, I, I can keep him distracted for 6 minutes. If I need to make a new distraction, I will. It's not a problem.
Guntrah: Okay.
Silas: I don't know. Maybe just like this.
Guntrah: Okay, uh, well then you, you distract him. We'll head down that way. We'll walk— you walk behind us. We'll walk past the alleyway for you to stop and go in. Once you go in, we'll go to the back side and we'll try to get in.
Silas: I ask him, is he married by chance?
DM: No, he's married to the job.
Silas: Hmm, okay.
DM: No, not, not again. No, no, no, no, no. Why must you reduce me to my gender?
Guntrah: Well, let's just, let's just get this going now so we can maybe enjoy the festivities tonight.
Silas: So you might like your mom.
Tavian: Very well.
DM: Follow me, I don't know, maybe 30 seconds behind me. Wait until I go in and then go around the back.
Silas: Okay, okay, fine.
DM: Let's go. And she heads out. Hey, shut the door behind you please on your way out. Uh, she takes you— or she heads out in front of you, walks down to the provisions office, uh, and you see her go in through the front door.
Guntrah: Okay, let's go to the back door.
DM: Um, okay, so you can overhear her just faintly. It's, it's pretty quiet. Um, she's just in animated discussion with him, not quite yelling at him, but making it very clear that she's unhappy with the way he's treating her. Um, and you come to the door. It is a standard door, just like any other door in all of the buildings around here. It does have a standard lock on it. Doesn't seem like anything special.
Silas: Who's the best at picking? I have—
DM: I should have figured this out before the clock was ticking.
Silas: I can—
Tito: I'll try and pick it.
Tavian: I say, picking what?
Guntrah: And my fingers—
Silas: okay.
DM: Sleight of Hand.
Tito: Plus 4.
Guntrah: Oh, with Greater Invisibility, how long?
Tito: Oh, it's an hour.
DM: Yeah, it's a lot of time.
Guntrah: So cast that first.
DM: But if, if you, if you cast it when he has Greater Invisibility or Invisibility, uh, if he does anything that's either magical or, um, considered an action or whatever, then that could break the invisibility depending, depending on what it is.
Tito: I don't need to be invisible as long as he's distracted.
Silas: And we can all go in as long as you guys are quiet.
Guntrah: I'm not very good at still.
Silas: I'm quiet.
DM: Uh, you look around, and the way that the office is, is placed or positioned, the back door doesn't have really anything behind it.
Tavian: It's—
DM: there's another, uh, the back of another building, and then there's like an alleyway where maybe once every 5 minutes or so a student will pass by. It's not, it's not busy.
Tito: Me and Silas will go in and you guys just peek your heads in and Keep a look for things while we're in there.
Guntrah: How far— looking through like the back door, the window?
DM: There's no windows.
Guntrah: Okay, so we don't know how far the back door is to the main front, right?
DM: Um, so it's about 40 feet around, but you don't know exactly where— based on where the door is, you don't know if it's his living quarters is behind it or off to the opposite side of it or between the door But in general, you could probably guess based on the size of this and structure of the building that it's maybe at most 30-ish feet in any direction.
Guntrah: Okay, okay. All right, well then, yeah, let's go ahead. So do a, I guess, sleight of hand.
Tito: Okay, I'm also going to expend another lucky point.
DM: You can decide after you roll if you want to use it.
Tito: Oh, I can decide?
Guntrah: Yeah, you could.
DM: But if you're rolling that 20, you don't need to use luck.
Guntrah: Let me, let me, uh, can I use a help action at all?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Yeah, you can, you can hold the, the thing while he takes it so you can roll it with advantage.
Tito: Uh, 12.
DM: That's with your +4?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Okay. Uh, yeah, you stick the tools in there that she gave you and then you hear click, click, click, click, click, click.
Guntrah: You can use a lucky—
DM: and you're thinking, I probably have the wrong tool. There's more tools to pick from.
Tito: I'll look for another tool.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Every time you do attempt it though, it's gonna get a little bit harder.
Guntrah: Okay, can I get help again?
DM: You can, you can help again.
Guntrah: Jesus, dude, it's worse.
Silas: It is worse.
DM: So no, same problem. Like, uh, this time let's say maybe there's only one other tool for you to use because you're using— Can I use Bardic Inspiration on top of my Lucky? Yeah, you can give yourself Bardic Inspiration. I think that's allowed, right?
Guntrah: Yeah, you can use Bardic. Uh, hold on, do we have any help? Action.
Tito: Well, can I use it?
Guntrah: You had your—
DM: oh no, not retroactively. So this next one you can do it. So roll 2 20s again, but at this point you've done enough internal damage to the mechanism, the tumblers. Yeah, you need at least a 21 to pick it.
Guntrah: Okay, and this is the last—
Tito: this is the last one.
DM: If you, if you, if you don't successfully get it this time, you break something on the inside so the key won't work, the lock won't work. It's just locked. That's not to say that you can't get in, but you can't get in that way.
Guntrah: Come on, Tito, get it. Okay, 11 plus 4, 16, plus 7, 23.
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Okay, so you see you barely get it. Oh man, I'm sweating.
Guntrah: You're—
DM: I mean, at this point you're like, you're giving yourself an internal monologue. You're hyping yourself up with your bardic skills as you're working, uh, when all of a sudden you do feel there's less resistance. Kind of twist a little bit and pull where you should, and then all of a sudden you hear this click.
Silas: I gotta go.
DM: And it does fall into place.
Silas: Jeez, man. All right, so who's going in?
DM: Uh, the door is not open, but you can tell it's now unlocked.
Silas: All right, who's go— who's got the best?
Tito: Okay, I have +6 to stealth, so I'm gonna go in there creepily.
DM: Okay, and when you crack the door open, you do see that it is dark inside.
Tito: Are you wearing You're in heavy armor.
Tavian: I am. So you're a big guy too.
Tito: Yeah. But you're also big. Oh no, you're small. Okay, we can both go in together.
DM: You can all— whoever wants to go in can go in.
Guntrah: But I have stealth disadvantage, so—
Tavian: Yeah, me too. Makes me want to like stand guard on the door because I can, I can charm people.
Tito: I'm gonna go in stealthily and then I'm gonna start investigating.
DM: I, I mean, I would say that normally in this scenario I would give you a Advantage in stealth because there's not much to stealth from, which would offset your disadvantage if you do want to go in because there's nobody watching. And the only person that would conceivably be able to hear you that you know of would be the person who's at the front of the store.
Guntrah: Flat roll if I go in.
DM: So it would be a non— yeah, disadvantage.
Tavian: Then I do want to go in and I want to make it known that I'm like holding my breath the entire time.
Tito: Okay, I can do it, but we get advantage.
DM: Oh, because you're air-godseed. Yeah, yeah, that's right.
Tavian: You don't need to hold breath, but I'm thinking that's helping me be quieter.
Silas: Sure.
Silas: Yeah, yeah, sweet.
Silas: I got 20.
Tito: Nice. I got about 24.
Guntrah: I actually got 19.
DM: And nobody did pass without a trace or anything?
Tavian: Okay. Oh wait, oh, I didn't actually roll. 8 minus 2, 6.
Guntrah: But it's a group check and they rolled really well, so is it gonna work out or no?
DM: I, I would say you're okay.
Guntrah: Okay, because I have something I can help him with.
Tavian: Yeah, I'm still holding my breath.
Guntrah: All right, I got a 19, so yep.
DM: So you're a little noisy, but it's, you know, there's a lot on the door behind me or something. Do you shut the door behind you though?
Tito: Uh, I would hope not.
Tavian: Okay, no, I, uh, do you leave it wide open?
Guntrah: Just a crack?
Tavian: No, just a crack.
Silas: Maybe just like not latched.
DM: But with the door wide open, obviously there's a lot of light in the room. When you do close the door, mostly it eliminates most of the light. There's still just a little bit of light filtering in from— there's a, like, a hallway that separates the front from the back.
Tavian: What's your impression?
Tito: Tavian.
Guntrah: Tavian. Tavian. Tavian. Tavian. Tito. Tito.
Silas: Tito. Like, Tavian.
DM: Do any of you not have darkvision?
Guntrah: I have darkvision.
Tavian: I have darkvision.
Silas: I do.
DM: All right, I think I thought bards or satyrs did.
Tavian: Maybe it should be under senses, like your passive stuff.
Silas: Your saves and saving throws. I can check it real quick. Features and traits, like here, I'll come into your senses.
DM: Maybe with your, like, passive perception, investigation. Um, you do not have Darkvision.
Silas: Yeah, I didn't think I did.
DM: So, uh, so it— you can still see a little bit in there, but not for very far. You can't see all the way to the edges of the walls, and you can just see kind of what's in the 5 to 10 foot range in front of you, like you're walking into a dark room at night. There's just a little bit of moonlight coming through, similar to that. So, uh, but when you walk in, you see this is a very tightly run office, or warehouse as it were. There are shelves all around the own. There are crates stacked around. Every crate has a label that is expertly written, what's exactly in its contents. And you see in one corner, a little bit further away, there's like a processing table where it looks like where he would just open up new inbound things and empty their contents and process it for whatever it needed.
Guntrah: Is there any— the paperwork is where I want to go to.
DM: It comes across as a mailroom, essentially what I'm saying, but a mailroom for stuff, not so much for mail, like paperwork. Um, there you don't see— from where you're standing, you don't see any logbooks or any sort of archives of any kind. Um, just like, it's just stuff. You see, you see small crates, large crates, you see, um, tables and, and, uh, shelves everywhere.
Guntrah: Can I do a quick investigation?
DM: Yeah, so just do a straight investigate. And I assume you guys are also investigating?
Guntrah: You guys want to do a help action on that, or—
DM: You have to do it with disadvantage because you can't see too well.
Tavian: Okay, I'll help you because I have a -3.
Silas: I got a +5.
DM: You're just holding things up closer to him since he's so tall.
Guntrah: Yeah, um, 25.
Tito: Okay, 15.
DM: Okay, uh, so yeah, with a 15, um, you see some interesting stuff that you think if you weren't a goody-two-shoes, maybe you'd lift it and use it, you know. But, um, uh, you don't see what you're looking for. Uh, neither do you, Tito. You don't see what you're looking for. Uh, Tavian, great job helping. Uh, it's— it seems to have worked.
Silas: Uh, look over there, and then you might bring something to me.
DM: Okay.
Guntrah: Um, because intelligence wouldn't allow him to know if it's bad or good, right?
DM: Right now he's just randomly picking things up and showing, is this it? What is this? All right, but miraculously he does pick out the right thing.
Silas: He says, is this it?
DM: And you're like, actually, yeah, that's exactly what we probably—
Tavian: um, but no.
DM: So, uh, looking at what Tavian shows you, you see a package that is, um, uh, addressed to— I'm trying to remember his name— it's the groundskeeper, um, Torvald Thatch. Uh, it's addressed to Torvald Thatch. It is a— just looks like any other shipped container. Um, and it also has a note that is written underneath to Torvald Thatch. It says, um, do not let Professor Voss see this.
Silas: Oh. And it is—
DM: it's closed. You can't see what's inside.
Guntrah: I'm gonna open it.
DM: Okay, so you just start ripping it open with your ogre— sorry, orc hands. I'll get that eventually. Orc hands. Uh, and actually his hands are ogre hands. The rest of it is some real weird reason his hands are hands on orc body.
Tavian: Yes.
DM: Um, and I need, um, all 4 of you to make Saving throws, please. I think it's Charisma. Hold on a second.
Silas: Yeah, I'm not very charismatic.
Silas: Are you doing Intelligence?
Silas: That's probably—
Tito: Is this a spell?
DM: Oh, I did forget to mention one thing. Um, before you open it, are you doing this all by yourself, or are you guys paying attention to I'm right there. You're right there, you're like, look what I found! And I assume at some point, Gun, you're like, I think this is it! And then that gets their attention, so you're probably all looking at him.
Tito: If he said something like that, I would be alert to him.
DM: Okay, so you walk, um, you walk over and, uh, here's my note here. Oh, so yeah, so you walk over and you see Gun is about to rip and rip, you know, open this package. Um, and you see some text on it, and I don't know if— do any of you have the ability to read or speak Celestial?
Tavian: No. No, I know Common, Common Sign Language.
DM: I always pick Common Sign Language, so this is like my go-to. Yeah, because it's good for quiet talking to other people who can do it.
Guntrah: Is there like— I do the investigation check.
DM: Yeah, you recognize that this other text on this package is in Celestial.
Silas: Okay.
Silas: Oh, I do, I do have Celestial. I have Common, Orc, and Celestial.
DM: That's the ones I picked. Okay, so, uh, you just briefly before he rips it open, you recognize that there's some Celestial text on the package, uh, and, um, let me see what it says.
Silas: I was like, I couldn't remember what the other one was. I know I picked Common and Orc, and I was like, no, what's the other one?
Silas: I was like, oh, Yeah, common and elvish.
DM: You, you're not able to pick up on it from, again, from a little bit of a distance.
Guntrah: He's—
DM: the fact that he's moving it and then he starts ripping it open, but you, you're reading it really quickly as you're walking over there. You're like, oh, that's unusual, it says Celestial on it and I can understand it. But you catch the word outside. That's the only word that you can see before he starts.
Silas: So I just told him, wait, wait, hold on, just real quick.
DM: I can kind of read I'm gonna say you don't have an opportunity to stop him because he's already started.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Um, and, and really, as soon as you start opening, that's when the thing happens. So, uh, what were your charisma saving throws?
Tito: Is it a spell that's being emitted?
DM: It is, but it's not a charming spell or a—
Silas: what is it?
DM: I assume that's what you're talking about.
Tito: I have advantage. It just says advantage on saving throws against Spells?
Silas: Magic?
DM: All spells?
Tito: Yes.
DM: Okay, then yeah, you get this.
Guntrah: I got an 18.
DM: An 18?
Silas: Shit.
Silas: Oh, it's charisma, you said?
DM: Yeah, charisma saving throw.
Silas: 16.
Tito: All right, I'm using my last lucky feat.
Tavian: 6 plus 10, 16.
Silas: 16.
Tito: Uh, 19.
Guntrah: 19.
DM: Okay, uh, 16, 9, 18, 19.
Silas: 16.
DM: 16. Okay, so you 2 immediately disappear. And, uh, these 2 immediately disappear when he starts opening the package. Oh, uh, and the package disappears too. It's gone.
Silas: Uh-oh.
DM: Uh, and you kind of take a second to real, like, figure out what's happening, and you see that just behind you, a portal has opened up and they've been sucked into it. But you, you guys, whether it's your feet are firmly planted or you've been able to resist the, the pull of this portal, uh, but you are confident that that's where the package went and that's where these 2 guys went.
Guntrah: Do you see anything through the portal?
DM: Make an investigation check real quick for me. Do you want to help me?
Guntrah: I roll advantage.
DM: I don't know that this is something he can help you with. I would say we're both legitimately— Yeah, you can both roll for investigation.
Guntrah: Uh, 23.
Silas: Okay.
Silas: 14.
DM: That's good enough. Um, you have had some learning, education with different types of portals. You know, you know, there's— that there's teleport rings, which you've experienced now. Or no, that was your other character. Sorry, you have not experienced teleportation ring, but But you're familiar with the teleportation circles, rings, and whatnot. You're familiar with different types of Dimension Door type portals that are limited range and temporary, uh, and then this one is one that you haven't seen before, but you know that it carries more power with it, and it is a doorway to another plane, a planar shift portal. You don't know where it goes, just that it— the type of portal that leaves the plane.
Guntrah: Okay, I'm gonna look at Tito. I'm gonna go, shit.
DM: And you also know that these types of things are short-lived, meaning that this portal is not going to be open very long. We're talking 10 seconds.
Guntrah: I'm looking at Tito. I'm instantly gonna go, shit, we gotta go. And I'm gonna run towards the portal.
DM: It's right behind you. You can just step into it.
Silas: Yep.
Tito: All right, follow.
Guntrah: Go.
Tito: But I am behind him.
DM: Okay, so you both step into the portal, uh, and it's a, it's a really weird experience going through this portal. You guys experience it first, then you guys follow, um, and it— you're very disoriented, and it, it's not quite the experience of blacking out, but it's not a, it's not a visual experience, more so as a psychedelic experience of you— you feel like maybe you've eaten way too many mushrooms or something, like it's just your brain's all over place, uh, and then you close your eyes to kind of make it go away. What did the letter turn into?
Tito: The portal?
DM: The package, yes.
Tito: Yeah, okay, so there's no letter?
DM: There is still a package, okay, but you don't visually see it because you're not seeing anything right now. But yeah, so then he's not hanging on to a letter anymore that actually had writing on it? No, it— when the portal opened, it disappeared.
Guntrah: Okay, that's just—
Tito: I wanted to clear that before we jumped And I would have said something like, bring the letter with us if it had instructions on it or something.
Tavian: It's gone.
Guntrah: Okay.
DM: Um, and so it, it feels like you're doing this for a long time. In reality, it was only a few seconds. And then you find yourself literally laying down on the ground somewhere, and you open your eyes, you look up, it is dark red skies, lots of dark clouds. Um, you hear some loud, very distant, loud screaming monsters.
Silas: Jesus.
DM: You hear rumblings in the earth. Uh, you kind of sit up a little bit and you can see that it's a very desolate landscape, except for to your semi-immediate right you see 2 ritualistic Statues. Uh, you see there is a person hunched over what looks like a workbench, not that different than ones you've used in the past building things. And you see that there is a large runic circle in the center of this area where you are. And then there's a couple of other, uh, landing places where you guys are laying down. There's other similar spots kind of around this circle, uh, and it is— this whole place where you are seems like it's like an island within the earth. Um, you see where the ground kind of disappears and there's like a moat kind of around it, um, and you see that it is orangely lit. And beyond that, it's very, very smoky and it's hard to see much of anything, but you do see— you can make out some distant mountains And, and, uh, rocky.
Guntrah: Are they around us?
DM: You 4 are together and you're all the only ones you see except for the guy who's hunched over the workbench.
Silas: Is the person a human person or is it—
Guntrah: You can't tell.
Tavian: It's close.
Silas: Yeah.
Tavian: Can I like sense with Survival maybe like what that— the moat is filled with?
DM: Like what kind of water it is? You'd have to get up and walk over to it.
Tito: Yeah, yeah.
DM: Um, but before you do that Uh, the figure— when you arrived, you probably— some— maybe you noticed it, maybe you didn't, but there was a lot of popping sound when you, when you showed up. Maybe 2 pops, one for the first 2 and then one for the next 2.
Tito: They would have heard it for sure.
DM: Yeah, you would have at least heard theirs. Um, so you hear this, you know, it's really loud popping sound, and then, uh, the figure who's hunched over the workbench, uh, you see he has something in his hands. He kind of sets it down and he turns to look in your direction. And you see that, um, he is a drow. Like, he's an ashen-skinned, um, elven, you know, shaped creature or character. And, uh, he's got these work gloves on, and, you know, he's clearly tinkering with something, uh, and he looks very haggard. Um, like, not necessarily weak, you know, elves by nature are slim and lean. Uh, uh, how far away is— but, uh, it's probably, I don't know, like maybe 25, 30 feet away from you. Um, and he looks over in your direction as you start to sit up and he says, oh, I, I wasn't— it's not time. I, I told you I needed another day.
Silas: Wait, who are you?
Tavian: Say hello, friend.
Guntrah: Where are we?
DM: Um, um, you're not— um, uh, um, you, you need to leave. You need to leave immediately. Um, it's— he's, he's some— you gotta, you gotta go.
Guntrah: You gotta go.
DM: Um, this is not good.
Tito: I'm gonna step in between the— I'm, I'm standing behind them.
DM: I'm gonna step— You guys are all standing up now?
Silas: Okay.
Tito: I am going to say, Professor Thatch sent us.
DM: I don't know who that is. You need to leave. In fact— and you look over and There's the one spot in this moat, there's a small stone, uh, like crossing. It's not, it's not like a drawbridge because there's no mechanism for it. It's a permanent bridge, but it's made of stone, uh, and you hear this— it's kind of like hooves similar to your own, uh, and they sound like they are crossing the bridge, but they're very loud. And, uh, the character, the, the drow, it's like, ah, it's, it's too late, it's too late.
Silas: I, I Good luck.
DM: And he gets down as low as he can, he crouches and goes under his workbench.
Guntrah: I'm gonna go, what's going on?
DM: It's, it's too late. He's essentially gone from this picture. Um, you look over to the stone bridge and you see that there are 2 very large 4-legged hoofed creatures crossing the bridge.
Guntrah: Is there— what's for our backs?
DM: It's, it's empty except for there is like this Uh, moat. Yeah, like a 15-foot cross. It's, it's really hard to tell. Visibility's poor because of all the smoke, but smoke does seem to be coming out of this moat as well.
Guntrah: Is there any perception I can make?
DM: Um, yeah, roll for perception, whoever wants to.
Guntrah: Yeah, well, 8— no, 9.
Silas: 7.
Tito: 18.
DM: Okay, so you guys get nothing. Uh, you're able to pick out, in addition to— because you have a lot of practice listening to hooves, way more than any of these other guys do— and you can tell that these are large 4-legged hoofed creatures, and you can tell that there is a crackling arcane energy of some sort.
Tito: With them. Can I tell distance?
DM: Um, you can tell that they are probably only 40-ish feet away from you and getting closer as they cross this bridge, based— and you can see the smoke is kind of swirling and you can make out a little bit of shadows in that direction. And you know, you're not— you don't really have time to do anything. Like, they're basically on you. You have maybe 5 seconds to prepare yourself.
Guntrah: Is there hiding or anything?
DM: There's this— there's like nothing to hide except for the one spot where Like, he went under his workbench, and it's not really hiding. You can see him plain as day. He's just blocking out the world. Um, and then there's these stone statues to the side of his workbench, which are clearly part of this ritualistic site, that if you could get around behind them, uh, you might be able to run there in time. But, um, there's nowhere to go, essentially.
Tito: I'll— what, like less than 5 seconds? I'm gonna hop behind Tavian, then I'm gonna Bardically Inspire him.
DM: Okay, whatever his next— yeah, if there's any one action you want to do before these creatures get here, all our movement.
Tito: Yep, I'm gonna hide, but I'm gonna jump behind him. Okay, not cowardly, but as strategically as possible, I guess. And then I'm gonna Inspire him.
Guntrah: I would say probably next, next to me. I'm gonna fly it up.
DM: Okay, um, make another perception check since you're flying up.
Tito: You get a full +4 to your next d20. Bad?
DM: Like nat 1 bad or bad?
Guntrah: Nat 1 bad.
DM: Okay, all right, so you fly up, but while you're flying up, your focus stays on the ground, so you're oblivious to everything else that's above ground with you. Um, you have no idea what all that stuff—
Guntrah: but I'm just gonna stay up there, focus on the ground.
DM: How, uh, I'd say you only have time to fly up maybe 30 feet.
Guntrah: Yeah, 30 feet.
Tavian: All right, all right, then I will, um, say, crew, get ready! And I bless myself and Silas and Tito. He just went basically out of range, and I feel like he's okay being up above. And, uh, so that gives us whenever we make an attack roll or a saving throw before the spell ends, which I'm concentrating on for a minute, we can add 1d4 to our attack or saving throw.
DM: Got a little damage to the transit, but, um, I actually might be able to slide this. It's a little bit too wide.
Guntrah: It's not bad though.
Tavian: Kind of holds it in place.
Silas: Yeah, actually kind of worked out.
DM: Um, yeah, so this is where I can't see because the— we might, we might have to do something different with this. Yeah, you want me to unwind this, uh, cord and we can try to move it or something?
Guntrah: Let's move the map here.
DM: Yeah, we can move the map over there, that's fine. Yeah, maybe just put the edge on it so it holds it down.
Guntrah: Smoke, boys.
Tito: Yeah, right.
DM: These are the things that are crossing the bridge.
Guntrah: Oh, they're big.
Silas: Oh boy, big centaurs.
Guntrah: Which way are they coming? North, south, west, east?
DM: Um, Yeah, I had to crop the map, so I lost which way the bridge was. I'm pretty sure this is the bridge because these are the— yeah, these are the stone, uh, and we're kind of in the middle statues. You guys arrived here, so that's where you are. The workbench is positioned— I think I had it right here on the stairs, or no, I had it up here above the stairs, but it doesn't really matter.
Silas: What the fuck?
DM: Yeah, so they're, they're approaching. I was going to have them back a little bit out of the picture, but that's fine. So do we— who needs a figure?
Tito: Me.
Silas: I've got one here.
DM: I need 2 figures. So you need a— oh, orc. Actually, I don't think I have any orcs in there.
Silas: I think they're all gonna be here. Scarecrow.
Tito: That's all I got.
Silas: Oops. My guy's not strong.
Tito: My guy's not strong.
Tavian: Do you have like a bluish guy for me? I do have, uh, Jin Frost, my other paladin.
DM: Yeah, just use— just use for this. It doesn't really matter. Oh yeah, this is temporary till you guys get your other ones anyway.
Tito: Okay, well, we all have characters. Miles needs a character. I had 2, 2 characters.
Silas: 2 Bulette.
Guntrah: I need the robot.
Tavian: So which one is you, Tito?
Guntrah: Oh, that's the Scarecrow.
Tito: Scarecrow.
Tavian: All right, you're behind me.
DM: Well, this is an orc, but it's a, a brutish orc, so better than nothing.
Tito: It's fine.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: And then the robot.
Guntrah: And you can put me on the, uh, platform there.
Silas: Back here?
Guntrah: No, no, the platform of the mic.
DM: He's flying. Oh yeah, I need to get some of those risers for flying things. Uh, put your robot— he can't fly, right?
Silas: He goes, I mean, you could carry him.
Silas: How heavy is Ollie, do you know?
Guntrah: Uh, I can carry my backpack. Okay, so I wanted— I can fly with him, but he's got to be like in docile mode.
DM: Docile mode, not attack mode.
Guntrah: Yeah, he goes on my back and then I can stand.
Silas: You think Ollie'd be open to do just trying some different things?
Silas: Just—
Guntrah: No, Ollie is not like smokers.
Silas: Trying some new things?
DM: He's a construct, he's uncorruptible.
Silas: Oh man, too bad. All right, all right, all right.
DM: Um, So, uh, you've all had time to prepare. You flew, you cast Bless, you bardically inspired. Did you do anything?
Silas: Oh, I—
Guntrah: You were preparing an action too.
DM: Yeah, if you wanted to just prepare something, you can. If you want to do something, you can.
Silas: Yeah, I'll just prepare an action.
Guntrah: Prepare a decent spell.
DM: Well, it's got to be something specific. It can't just be, I prepare an action.
Silas: Dang it.
DM: If enemies enter X amount of Yeah, you prepare a spell, like an attack spell or something.
Silas: I will do—
DM: okay, it's okay to go with the high spell.
Silas: I'll, I'll prepare, uh, something called Cloud of Daggers.
DM: That's an AOE.
Silas: Can't do that?
Guntrah: No, no, no, it's good.
DM: So you want to cast it or you want to prepare to cast it?
Guntrah: Um, Well, is this map representative? Like, is it real?
DM: I, I don't understand that.
Guntrah: Um, so like, for example, if like if they're coming down this railing, if you did Cloud of Daggers here—
DM: Oh, I don't think there's a rail. I think those are down steps.
Silas: Okay.
DM: So this whole thing is raised a little bit, and the way— at least the way I envisioned it, I don't know if the map actually maps it Um, so these platforms are lower by like 2 feet than this central platform. Um, so you're essentially going up tiny bits of stairs to get up here.
Guntrah: I mean, yeah, you could always do a Cloud of Daggers like here or here, or just prepare to place it whenever you want to.
Silas: Actually, hold on a second. Um, Hold on, one called Wall of Force and Wall of Stone.
Silas: Let me see here, these might be better. How long is that? Uh, you know the classic Fireball?
Silas: What?
Guntrah: You know the classic Fireball?
Silas: Oh, I probably do, but I just feel like this could be pretty good. Maybe I can keep the knife coming over there.
Tito: Well, hold, hold it, prepare it then.
Tavian: Is that what you're doing?
Silas: Yeah.
Guntrah: These boys seem like they're stronger than we think.
Silas: Okay.
Silas: Oh, weird.
Silas: They can actually like damage it, but it has to like, you know, has an AC of 15, 30 hit points per inch of thickness.
Silas: That's weird.
Silas: Maintain your concentration on spell for its whole duration.
Silas: This wall becomes permanent, can't be dispelled. Otherwise, the wall— maybe that would be a good one.
Silas: Wall of Stone, when they just can't even come in there.
Tito: Well, prepare.
Guntrah: Okay, make a decision.
Silas: I'll do that one.
Guntrah: Do that. All right, so you're preparing that for what? What's your trigger?
DM: You have to state a trigger for it.
Silas: Oh, like what would cause it to come up?
Guntrah: Because if you're preparing an action, you're gonna say what it is.
Tito: If they cross this boundary.
Silas: Oh, okay.
Guntrah: If they come within 60 feet, I do this.
Silas: Okay, so yeah, once they— I guess once they cross over, once they get to the top of the platform, yeah, then it will— this thing will trigger this wall to come up and basically keep them out.
Tito: All right, okay, deal.
DM: Sorry, I was testing something.
Silas: Uh, yeah, 10 10-foot by 10-foot panels. So yeah, you could put that— that's pretty far because each of those are what, 5?
Silas: Yeah.
Silas: So man, you can go— yeah.
DM: Now I was seeing if I could access my home Claude Code session from remotely, but it won't let me. So I have some additional details in there for this. Uh, that's okay.
Guntrah: Um, we're doing initiative roll.
DM: Yeah, yeah, go— everybody go ahead and roll initiative for me, please.
Guntrah: Big money, big money. Nice.
Silas: Nat 1.
Guntrah: 20.
Tavian: I actually have an 18. I have a -2 initiative, but I got a nat 20, so I don't know if that does anything here.
DM: Um, the naturalness of the 20 I don't think would necessarily be a benefit, but, uh, I would probably treat it as like a tiebreaker.
Silas: I have a 2.
Guntrah: Got a 20.
Tito: I got a 19.
Silas: I have a 20 minus 0.
Silas: 19.
Silas: I bet you I'm going last. I'm just gonna just go with that.
Guntrah: Do you guys have God help you or no?
Silas: I don't, I don't know.
Guntrah: You should try that.
Silas: Just pray?
Guntrah: Dude, it worked last time I played Star Wars.
Silas: Really?
Tavian: Oh yeah, he wasn't here for that.
Tito: That was—
Silas: yeah.
Silas: Oh my gosh.
DM: Yeah, we're behind Lynn. What a crazy— that was definitely the craziest Star Wars session we'd ever had.
Silas: Really?
Tito: It was, yeah.
Silas: Who won?
Tito: We did.
Silas: Oh, you did?
Tavian: They were the—
Tito: all of our characters got wiped almost instantly.
Tavian: We annihilated them.
Tito: But they crit me like 4 or 5 times and it just knocked out my character so fast.
Guntrah: But I reached out to God and he helped me.
Silas: How did you win?
DM: So he had— let me pause this. This recording, because this is red—
Guntrah: not relevant.
DM: Okay, all right, we're unpaused. Um, okay, so I need to document initiatives real quick. Uh, add all tokens, -20 auto initiatives.
Silas: -2.0.
DM: Tito, what was your initiative?
Tavian: 19.
DM: 19.
Tavian: Tavian?
DM: 20 minus 2, 18. Silas, what would you get?
Silas: 2.
DM: That's it?
Silas: Just 2?
Guntrah: 2.
DM: And 20 for Gunn.
Silas: Okay, let me make sure I have these guys in the right spots. Okay, almost. That was close.
DM: Okay, so these things are very— I mean, you can see what they look like. They're very vicious. Horse-like, centaur-like creatures. Um, let me see if there's a visual description I can read here.
Silas: Uh, okay.
DM: Uh, part of what makes these guys so fearsome is the number of weapons they have at their disposal. They possess dense Hooves, claws that end in curling talons, and long tails whose serrated edges— serrated ridges can flense— flense? Is that a word? Flense the flesh from a victim. Never heard that word before. Flense.
Silas: Uh-uh.
DM: And they can use them all to carve through their foes. They usually travel in formations. They're usually not seen in packs as small as 2. Usually they're in herds.
Silas: Wow.
DM: So there usually are more of them when you see some of them. They— some of them can call on their innate magic to loose bolts of lightning, so that's that crackling energy that you could hear. Okay, so that's more or less what they are. Very ruthless creatures. All right, initiative order. You are up, Gun. This is what— oh, let me make sure I got everybody in the right spots here.
Guntrah: Okay.
DM: I need to add your homunculus—
Tito: or sorry, your—
DM: what do you call him? Guardian?
Guntrah: Guardian, yeah.
DM: I need to add a token for him too so he gets in the initiative order.
Tito: Does he always go right after?
Guntrah: Yeah, he goes on my initiative.
DM: It lists him as tiny. I don't know if that really matters.
Tito: He is tiny.
Silas: Tiny.
Tavian: And a tiny boy.
Silas: It's a tiny little—
DM: And you said he always follows your turn in combat?
Guntrah: Okay, great.
DM: All right, um, Gun, it's your turn.
Guntrah: Okay, um, my turn. I am going to do a Crossbow attack.
Silas: Nice.
Guntrah: Okay, and the nearest one—
Tavian: he's flying.
DM: Yeah, I was just trying to figure out which character, which, uh, figurine is which.
Guntrah: Closest one.
DM: No, I'm sorry, which of these is— what is you guys?
Tavian: I'm up top.
DM: I'm the witch. You're the scarecrow in the back.
Tito: Scarecrow.
DM: You're the unpainted one with the, the monk staff thingy.
Tito: And he has the sword.
DM: And you're the one with the sword.
Tito: Okay, so Yeah, because I jumped behind Tavian courageously.
Tavian: And Bardic Inspiration for attack rolls.
Tito: And any—
Guntrah: your next d20 for to hit.
DM: Uh, I'm guessing that's going to be a hit, and we'll resolve that damage first. Uh, 24 to hit. Yeah, that is a hit.
Guntrah: It's gonna be 10 piercing, and it's also a magical weapon.
Silas: Yep.
Guntrah: Um, I want to go ahead and add a Branding Smite to that.
DM: Okay, so you can Smite on non-melee attacks. Are you 100% sure about that?
Guntrah: The next time you hit a creature with a weapon attack for the— yeah, so that's gonna be 2d6.
DM: Um, does that use a bonus action or is it just a—
Guntrah: That's a bonus action. 2d6 radiant damage.
Silas: Cut.
Guntrah: And target sheds a dim light in 5 feet, becomes—
Silas: it's a turn, so—
Guntrah: oh, wrong dice. 6 on that dice, so that's gonna be 8 total radiant damage.
DM: Okay, 8 more radiant, and he's glowing.
Guntrah: He's glowing. And that is my turn. And my little robot guy will be like, and he will move a little bit forward. Let me see what I actually do.
Tavian: I say, guys, I don't know if we're gonna make that party tonight.
Silas: Oh, we're gonna make it. I've been waiting for this thing for like weeks. He promised me this is gonna be the— his best— his best party of the year.
Guntrah: So he's got 30 feet, but, um, he's gonna kind of just stay with the party. Okay, that'd be his turn.
DM: Okay, all right, next in the order, Tito. What would you like to do?
Tito: I am going to cast Chromatic Orb at the closest, um, blight here, and that is going to be— it's a +8 to hit.
DM: Is that the one where you pick the element?
Tito: Yeah, so it's gonna be cold damage is what I'm picking.
DM: Okay.
Tito: Uh, 24.
DM: 24 is gonna hit.
Tito: And then that's 8d8.
Silas: Okay, 8d8.
Tito: And then if I roll— oh no, it's only 7d8.
DM: Oh, 7d8.
Silas: Oh, just—
Tito: okay. And if I roll 2 of the same number, I can bounce that orb to the next guy.
Tavian: Oh, really?
Silas: Yeah.
Silas: That's pretty cool.
DM: Yeah, what level did you cast this at?
Tito: At 5th level.
DM: Level. Okay, no doubles, no doubles.
Silas: But you said you get 7, right?
Tito: 17.
DM: Oh, he gets to roll 3 more.
Guntrah: Oh, so whatever the numbers you have—
DM: 1, 2, 8, 9.
Silas: You can have 2.
DM: But no, no, how can you get a 9 on a d8? You rolled the wrong dice.
Silas: Oh, whoops.
DM: D8s, not d10s.
Silas: Yeah, what do you have? You want these other 3?
Silas: Sure.
DM: So that's— you got all 7 now?
Silas: Yep.
Guntrah: Yep.
DM: Okay, it's a couple 7s. I got— I see 2 6s.
Silas: Yep.
DM: So man, you got some good rolls there.
Tito: 16, 21, 29, plus 14.
DM: Dang, that is a lot.
Tito: 43.
DM: Jeez, 43 cold damage.
Silas: And then you get the bounce.
Guntrah: Did you—
Silas: would you save to get the center?
Tito: And then I'm gonna bounce that bad boy. Okay, so I have to make a new attack roll.
DM: Yep, go ahead.
Silas: Oh, I see.
Silas: That's cool.
Tito: 19.
DM: Uh, it does hit.
Tito: And I, I could keep bouncing it up to my—
DM: but I cannot bounce back and forth to the same person, right?
Silas: Wow.
DM: You get to reroll all of them or just the ones—
Tito: No, I get to reroll all my damage rolls again.
DM: It's a new— it's a brand new attack now.
Tito: If the—
DM: that's good because those were really high damage rolls.
Silas: Those were all—
DM: I think they were all 5 and up.
Tito: So 10, 12, 19. Is that a 7?
DM: What is that? Is it— it looks like a 2, a weird 2.
Tito: What is that?
Guntrah: It's a 7.
DM: What? No, it's not a 7. It's a 2. It wasn't a— so 20. I see your angles, but it's not right. It's not a 7.
Tito: 33 plus 2, 35.
DM: 35 cold damage as well.
Tito: Confusion.
DM: And then, uh, you do notice that it— they're not taking quite as much damage as you would expect, but they seem to have taken his full crossbow bolt.
Guntrah: I'm resistant to cold.
Tito: And then I am going to expend my last Bardic Inspiration to, um, Silas.
DM: How much is that?
Tavian: Is that a d8 or a d10?
Tito: It's a d10. I rolled a 4, so you get a +4.
Tavian: He wasn't gonna use it when I use it.
Tito: Yeah. Yes.
DM: Oh, you get it? Yeah, whenever he uses it, he'll roll it.
Silas: Oh, okay.
Guntrah: But you're giving this to Silas?
Tito: I'm giving it to Silas now.
Tavian: But I've already had one.
Tito: Yeah, and that's my last.
DM: So you have a Bardic Inspiration dice.
Silas: I'm also—
Silas: okay, and I can use that for what?
DM: Basically anytime you roll a d20, you can add on your Okay. Yeah, I think there are some exceptions. I think you can also do something damage related, but I don't remember it.
Tito: Oh no, I have one. I have no more lucky points left. I've used all my points.
DM: Okay, so that's it for your turn, Tito. Um, the one who just took the crossbow bolt and then the chromatic orb to the face, uh, he snarls and charges at the party.
Silas: Okay, can I do my thing now?
Tavian: Yeah.
Guntrah: Well, where's he— what's he doing?
Tavian: Hold on, he's triggering it.
DM: So if you prepared something, you prepared it based on movements.
Guntrah: Where is he moving?
DM: Well, it depends. Is he being stopped? Because he's charging at the party.
Guntrah: He is being stopped. How far does he move?
DM: All the way. Well, he's just gonna like, like straight diagonal.
Tavian: Yeah, right there.
Tito: So right here in front of it, he casts Wall of Stone.
Silas: Yeah, it can go— it's kind of crazy because it goes 20 feet. Yeah, 10— it's 10 10-foot by 10-foot panels.
DM: 10 panels that are 10 foot by 10 foot.
Guntrah: Yeah, so you're just encapsulating the area.
Silas: Yeah, you can go like— yeah, you can make it like in any shape you want, it says.
DM: Okay, so what's the shape you're going for?
Silas: Round.
DM: What's the name of the spell?
Tito: Wall of Stone.
Silas: Wall of Stone.
Tito: 6 inches thick, and they're just 10 by 10 blocks.
Guntrah: Yeah, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30. 35. So you can do—
Silas: yeah, I can do the whole—
Guntrah: you do double thickness.
Silas: Oh yeah, can I do that?
Tavian: Well, I mean, if you could snake it back.
Guntrah: 10.
Silas: Oh yeah, I guess you should.
Guntrah: 20, 30, 40.
DM: Um, I should say this is not like empty. This, this is solid ground. They're at the edge of the bridge, so the moat— like, you can see the corners of the map are where like the moat is. This is just rocky terrain.
Guntrah: So, right, and he's saying what he's doing is—
Tito: It would be uneven. It would have to be set at an angle is what I think Derek's trying to say.
DM: I'm saying if you want it to go start at the moat, then it's gonna have to go like all the way back here off the map.
Tavian: The, the idea is that it's blocking their path to us.
Tito: We just want—
Tavian: Yeah, whatever that looks like.
Tito: A field goal shape around them.
DM: I don't have, um, anything erasable. I don't really want to draw on the map because it's not laminated yet.
Silas: You don't have to, but I mean, you just know that there's just a wall around the—
DM: But I need to be specific because I'm going to have to move around it or attack it, or I need to plan around it. So I need to know where exactly it is.
Silas: Well, it's going to— I mean, I guess it would go like—
DM: Yeah, use your finger, draw it out.
Silas: I mean, it's basically around the— where was the thing? Oh, right here.
Silas: Yeah.
Silas: So it would basically be like, oops, like whatever it has to be over here, because I mean, we have plenty of wall to work with.
Tito: Yeah, yes, U-shaped.
Silas: Okay, I mean, the idea is to keep them sort of—
DM: Okay, so it's, uh, they are taking up 20— like, in front of them is 20 feet, and you want to go 20 feet in either direction, so 60 feet in the shape of a U.
Silas: Sure. Okay, whatever, because I just know what you need it to be back. But I mean, like, it has— like, like I said, it's got like—
Tavian: you can use, right, 100 feet, whatever extension back.
DM: Okay, uh, okay, so are you gonna use— are you gonna stop it at 60, or are you gonna use the extra for anything else? Because you have 4 more sections.
Silas: Oh yeah.
Guntrah: Um, but I—
DM: and I think they have to be connected in some way, right?
Silas: I think so, yeah. Let's see, each panel must be continuous with at least one other panel.
Silas: Okay.
Silas: Yeah.
Tito: All right, well, here I got some tape, so let's just map it out.
Guntrah: Well, tape—
DM: tape's gonna ruin it, I think. Yeah, yeah. Unless you like roll up the tape so that it's not actually sticky.
Silas: I have rope. I have line.
DM: Okay, I got an idea. So it's just, it's 40— oh wait, see, 2 panels, so 20 feet, 20 feet, and 20 feet. And you, what are you gonna do with the other 4?
Silas: Uh, I mean, I don't know if we can even— it has to be contiguous. I don't know if you can do anything else really much with it. I mean, I guess you could put it kind of back further. Oh well, I guess you can make it higher. I mean, I don't know.
DM: Yeah, you could stack them on vertically.
Silas: Okay.
Silas: Yeah, I mean, I, I don't know how how—
DM: what athleticism they have, but you could just in case make it extra high.
Silas: Yeah, I'll make it higher.
DM: And so you only have 4 extra panels, so you can make this side extra high and that side extra high. You won't have enough panels to make that side extra high.
Silas: Okay, okay, that's fine.
DM: So you've got essentially a 20-foot by 20-foot on their right, a 20-foot by 20-foot in front of them, and then a 20-foot by 10-foot to their left.
Silas: Yeah, so like here?
DM: Yeah, it's fine. I got an idea. I can actually draw it on my maps utility here.
Silas: It's crazy since each panel has AC 15 and 30 hit points per inch of thickness, because you can make it longer and make it 3 inches thick instead of 6, but we didn't need to. So it's— so that means each panel has 60 hit points? No, 30 hit points per inch.
DM: Oh yeah, okay.
Silas: Each panel has 180 hit points. So it's like, it's AC 15, 180 hit points per panel. If you reduce it to 0 hit points, it destroys it and may cause connected panels to collapse at the GM's discretion.
Silas: Okay.
DM: All right, so you build the wall. That was your prepared action, right? Okay, so it's still your turn.
Tavian: No, no, no.
Silas: Well, not—
DM: it reset. Yeah, that reset.
Tavian: Yeah, it's not your turn. It's this guy's turn.
Tito: Yeah.
Silas: Oh, that's because it was a trigger. Like, so I had it set to trigger like once they tried to basically move towards us, then it would just go—
DM: Okay, so he starts to charge and you immediately throw up a big stone wall in front of him, which I'm assuming it's instantaneous casting time.
Silas: Yeah, it says, uh, yeah, I had to concentrate on it, but okay, and it lasts for 10 minutes.
DM: Okay, all right, uh, so 10 minutes, you said?
Tavian: A long time.
Silas: Yeah, I guess it springs into existence basically, you know, once you shoot, whenever Within range, which the range is like 120 feet, so—
Tavian: Right, right.
DM: Yep, plenty of range. Okay, so you throw up this wall. The, the guy who's charging immediately just crashes into the wall and attacks it. He doesn't really know what else to do. He's not a very intelligent creature, uh, so he starts banging on it. Let me make some attack rolls here.
Guntrah: Does it—
DM: you said it has AC?
Silas: Yeah, AC of 15.
DM: 15. And it has 180 hit points Oh, we gotta keep track of hit points for that. That's gonna be fun.
Silas: 30 hit points per inch. So yeah, there's 6— they're all 6 inches, so yeah, 180 hit points per panel, which is crazy.
Silas: Okay, all right. Um, that does seem crazy.
Tito: No, it'll be super useful in like battlefield control.
Guntrah: Just for people.
Silas: Yeah, I kind of picked—
Tito: I gave you a bunch of dice.
DM: Hmm, yeah, that's right, you did give me dice. Yeah, I can just roll actual dice then.
Guntrah: Oh wait, these are bad rolls. We should go with those.
DM: Yeah, I like those.
Silas: Yeah, 6s. 6-6, baby.
DM: Those were 6s? I didn't see what they were. They disappeared already.
Silas: Yeah, I hope they're 6s.
Silas: All right, these are—
Tavian: it was a 6 and a 9.
Silas: Oh, a 6 and a 9.
Guntrah: 6-9, hell yeah!
DM: Okay, uh, now I gotta roll a shit ton of damage for this stupid wall.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Now I'm just going to use the recommended numbers. I'm not going to roll the damage. It gives averages. I'm going to use the averages.
Silas: Uh, so let's see, that's gonna be—
DM: Okay, so, uh, it's— they— you can tell the first one does some pretty significant damage to it. Obviously it doesn't break it because it's way too strong for that, but, um, it's, it's moving. Like, you can— as the person concentrating on the spell, you kind of have a feel for how tough this wall is. And, uh, you feel like it might have lost in the ballpark of like 50-ish, maybe a little less, a little more. You can't be specific. Um, that was the first one, and now it's the other one's turn. It is going to do the same thing. It's going to start attacking its panel.
Tito: So separate— it's attacking separate panels?
DM: Yeah, because they, they're too big to attack the same panel. Oh, you could Yeah, you're right, they're gonna attack the same. Yeah, because we gotta speed this up.
Silas: Yeah. All right.
DM: Okay, so it hits all 3 times. Uh, so it does slightly less damage than the first, but combined you're looking at close to 100 damage from one turn on that panel that's right in front of this guy.
Silas: Guntrah's—
Guntrah: or Gunzi go, Sil, good move!
DM: Oh my God, thanks, Sil. Did you abbreviate Silas to Sil?
Guntrah: Because I don't want to be my father's name.
DM: Oh, okay. All right, even though you call him Sealus. Yeah, Sealus and Silas.
Guntrah: Okay, figure it out.
DM: Uh, all right, next in the turn order is Tavian.
Tavian: Yeah, so I just say, hold. This will be glorious! And I'm literally holding my turn, but I've got my shield and sword ready to cast Guiding Bolt on the first creature that bursts through the panel.
DM: Okay, got it. You're gonna hold Guiding Bolt.
Tavian: Um, I might use my bonus action, um, to Harness Divine Power. Um, it's my second of 2 that refill after a long rest, but I'm refilling Uh, uh, just a spell slot, no higher than level 2.
Silas: Okay.
Tavian: Oh fuck, never mind, I don't— I didn't spend any of those, so not yet.
DM: Nothing to do yet.
Tavian: Goddamn it.
DM: Um, um, it is—
Tavian: oh yeah, I did.
Silas: What?
Tavian: And I just remind everyone that's near me within 5 or 10 feet, like—
DM: Oh yeah, I don't know if you used your Bless or not.
Tito: I don't think I needed to for my rules.
DM: I think it adds damage though, doesn't it? It can be for a damage roll, it can be for— It depends. So we're— I'm trying to use only 5th edition, not 5.5 edition. So when you're casting spells, if you can try to get the 5th edition spell—
Tito: 5th editions, which are—
DM: yeah, yeah, but it's not just the character though, it's also the spells.
Tavian: It's like attack roll or saving throw.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Um, but when you're adding spells, if you see like Mage Hand and then Mage Hand Legacy, always add the legacy one when you're adding spells and stuff. Okay, uh, yeah, so it hasn't come up yet because it's not applied to damage, it's saving throws.
Tavian: But I've got a number of other things that I, you know, I add +3 to saving throws. If they start next to me, they get an extra 10-foot movement, um, and they also can't be frightened, right? That's 3 different auras.
Tito: Got it.
Guntrah: Yeah.
DM: All right, so that's it for Tavian. It is the, um, Drow's turn. He's, uh, quivering underneath his workshop.
Silas: You see—
DM: well, you don't see anything because you're not focused on him. He does stuff. Uh, Silas, your turn.
Silas: Oh, my turn actually.
Silas: Okay, so yeah, so let's see what I was gonna do.
Tavian: Um, so you can cast spells, but you can't cast another concentration spell. Oh, but you can cast a one-time use spell. If needed.
DM: Yeah, don't, don't do anything that requires concentration, and you can't do anything that requires line of sight. Oh, because you no longer have line of sight.
Tavian: If you can do any buffs or moving to a strategic location, or, or like he did, you can prepare, uh, some sort of spell action.
Silas: Yeah, um, wait, what is this?
Silas: Does this take I don't know if that would do anything. Oh, that's not gonna work. I'm sorry to noise.
Silas: Okay, um. Okay, I will do— does it tell you on this thing like, like if it's concentration or not?
Tavian: Just be a little C. Yep, there's a little emblem behind the spell if you look at the stone wall.
Silas: Oh yeah, it's really small.
DM: Yep, the diamond. That diamond indicates concentration.
Silas: That helps.
Silas: I was like, how am I supposed to figure out which one is what?
Silas: Okay. Okay, I'm still good. I'm going to do— what's this one? It doesn't have— oh yeah, it does. Sorry, a lot of these are concentration, but I can do— okay, I'll do this one, I guess.
Silas: Let's choose I'll do this one called Mind Sliver.
Silas: So do you have to see him? Um, instantaneous— no, it doesn't say that.
Silas: You drive a disorienting spike of psychic energy in the mind of one creature. Oh, you can see within range. I can't even see him?
DM: No, you can't. You put a wall up.
Silas: Oh geez.
DM: You can't do anything that requires you to see them.
Silas: Dang.
Tavian: You can prepare that for when you can see them.
Silas: Yeah, okay, well, I'll just do that then because I don't— it seems like most of the things either concentration or whatever.
DM: Yeah, yeah, you basically put a pause on the fight with your wall.
Silas: Just hold the wall.
Silas: Okay, so I'll just do that for now, and I'll just prepare the other one, Sliver one, if they break through or something.
DM: Okay, all right, you're preparing Mind Sliver for when they break through. Uh, Back to the top of the order. Done.
Guntrah: All right, can I see the guy who's been injured?
DM: Nope, there's a 40-foot wall.
Tito: He's up, he's flying.
DM: I know, 20-foot—
Tito: sorry, 20-foot wall.
DM: Uh, you'd have to fly like overhead.
Guntrah: 30 feet.
DM: Yeah, but that's—
Guntrah: Can I go another 30 feet?
DM: You can fly closer to see down.
Silas: Yeah.
Guntrah: I go 30 feet up and see him.
DM: You're gonna get into the algebra here. Um, You— if you fly another 30 feet up, I would let you target that one, but he is gonna have enough cover. He'll get a bonus. He'll be partially hidden.
Guntrah: What if I go 60 feet up?
DM: How far is your— how far can your crossbow attack?
Tavian: Yeah, then you're getting 120.
Tito: Well, then that's still out.
Tavian: It's probably 60 and 120.
DM: Yeah, that's got to be its max. That's not gonna be— this is Yeah, crossbows are not like longbows. You can do it, I'm just saying you're going to be at a disadvantage and he's going to have a higher defensive boost if you go that high.
Guntrah: All right, I go 30.
DM: You can just fly right above him and shoot down.
Guntrah: I don't want to.
DM: Okay, do you go up?
Guntrah: Let's go. I go 30, but then Over this direction, maybe a little. Does that give me any—
DM: Well, he's got the 20-foot wall up this way.
Tito: That's the problem.
DM: Yeah, the problem is there's a big-ass fucking wall.
Tito: And they're right next to the wall too.
Tavian: Yeah, it was that—
DM: I mean, the Pythagorean theorem says you're gonna have a tough shot. That's literally what it says.
Guntrah: Can I go for the far guy, right?
DM: That's what I'm saying. Even to go for the far guy with the Pythagorean theorem, you're gonna have an obstructed shot. Even if you go high.
Guntrah: That's what I do.
Silas: I'll do—
Guntrah: I'll go 60 feet from original position with the obstructive.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Give him a little bit of COVID Okay, go ahead and make a disadvantage attack against him.
Tavian: Disadvantage?
Silas: What?
DM: You're shooting further than 60 feet away, right?
Guntrah: Oh well, it's 100.
Tavian: Yeah, then it's disadvantage shot.
DM: I, I— okay, your cross— there's no way your crossbow can shoot further than 60 feet without disadvantage. I'm pretty sure 120 would be the high end, I don't think—
Guntrah: We can go 100.
DM: What kind of crossbow is it?
Silas: Heavy.
DM: A heavy crossbow?
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Yeah, how many other weird fucking tools do you have in there?
Silas: Don't worry about it.
DM: I have to worry about it, it's my job to worry about it.
Silas: Don't worry about it.
Guntrah: I think that becomes a crossbow, I got +10 to hit, proficient.
DM: Okay, the heavy crossbow.
Guntrah: It's up to 100.
DM: Up to 100.
Tavian: Oh yeah.
DM: Before it gets to disadvantage.
Silas: Yep.
Tavian: A range of 400.
DM: You should have said with the disadvantage.
Silas: That's like a sniper crossbow.
Silas: You can hit that somebody from way away.
Tito: Hey, it has a range of—
Guntrah: I play, uh, English longbowmen. I know about this shit.
Tito: It has a range of 400 feet.
Guntrah: Yeah, dude, without No, no, with disadvantage.
Tavian: Anything 101.
DM: Okay, okay, so make it with— without disadvantage.
Silas: All right.
Guntrah: Okay, it's 21.
DM: Uh, that's still gonna hit.
Guntrah: 21's gonna hit. Okay, we'll do that damage first. First, which is a d10 plus 6. 12 piercing. Uh, and I'd also like to add—
DM: this is magical?
Silas: Yeah.
Guntrah: Okay, I'd also like to add, um, let's go with the 3rd-level Branding Smite.
DM: Next time I'm gonna say no, you need to declare that before because it's a It's applied on the next attack. You can't wait till you hit and then do it, but I'll allow it this time.
Guntrah: All right, all right. It's gonna be, um, 11 Branding Smite, radiant damage.
Silas: Okay.
Guntrah: Hell yeah.
Tavian: Um, it's Friday already.
Guntrah: Fuck yeah, dude. Hell yeah, America.
Silas: America.
Guntrah: Okay, so Branding Smite, next time you hit a creature— okay, so do cold up front. Okay, right on. And that's my, uh, turn.
DM: Okay, uh, all right, it is the closer one's turn. He's gonna smash his wall.
Guntrah: Well, no, it's Ollie's turn.
DM: Oh, sorry, what is Ollie doing?
Guntrah: Ollie, chill, bud.
DM: That's it?
Tito: Yeah.
DM: Okay, all right, crit on that one. Okay, so...
Guntrah: Go ahead and banish against walls.
DM: Okay, so that's another 50-ish damage, and that wall is about ready to come down. However, the— that was, um, this one's turn. He hit the wall. Uh, this one is not going to attack the wall. He's going to throw a lightning bolt at Gun.
Guntrah: Disagree! Wait, the wall's down?
Tito: No, not—
DM: no, it's not down. Instead of attacking the wall and opening it up, he is going to react to having been shot by— oh, he's flying in the sky. Uh, all right, I need you to make a Dexterity saving throw, please.
Guntrah: It's not great, it's 10.
DM: Uh, okay, I don't have enough dice for this, I think.
Guntrah: All it gives me is help action to do this. Sorry, I'm beefy.
Silas: I'm a beefy boy.
Tavian: Yeah, is this gonna affect your flight, or can you take damage and sustain?
Guntrah: I can't even fall.
Silas: Nice.
Guntrah: My falling is—
Tavian: it's about minute increments, or like when you land or something, right?
Guntrah: How many? I get 4 as a flight, but if I fall, I fall at a speed that doesn't hurt.
Tavian: Yeah, yeah, nice.
Silas: What's the speed?
DM: Uh, so you take 34 lightning damage.
Silas: Soft lightning.
DM: And that's it. 34 lightning damage.
Silas: That's it?
DM: That's it. I thought there was going to be like a, and you go prone, but there's—
Silas: Oh yeah, that's it. Just 34.
DM: Uh, he can't do that every turn, but I'm— that's metagaming. Obviously he has to recharge that ability.
Silas: Son of a bitch.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Uh, that's both of them, and now it is Tito.
Tavian: Wait, they both just took their turn?
DM: Yeah, yeah, the first guy, he just smashed his wall. It's almost broken in front of him. Instead of him breaking that wall, he threw the lightning bolt and hit.
Silas: Yeah.
Tito: Did you say I get movement speed increase when I'm next to you?
Tavian: Yeah, like +10. Let me verify.
Tito: And I can move through people?
Tavian: Yeah.
DM: Um, you can move through people, yes.
Tavian: Okay, so first, as long as you start your turn within 5 feet of me, your movement speed's increased by 10 feet until the end of your turn.
Tito: Okay, so I'm gonna go— I have 35 feet of movement speed, so I'm gonna go 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30, 35.
DM: And I just— for your reference, the wall is immediately in front of them. There's no gap. It's not like the wall's out here, the wall's up there. So I'm just letting you know so we're operating with the same.
Tito: Okay, then I am going to use Regain Bardic Inspiration. You can expend a spell slot, no action required, to regain your one expended use of Bardic Inspiration, so I'm going to charge a spell slot and regain one of my Bardic Inspirations back.
Silas: Yep.
Guntrah: Okay.
Tito: And then I am going to The verbiage says— I'm gonna cast Chromatic Orb again. The verbiage says you hurl an orb of energy at a target within range. It doesn't say that you can see.
DM: Okay, I don't see how it's possible for you to hit them without hitting the wall, but let me look up this.
Tito: You don't think I could hurl it over the wall?
DM: I don't know, it doesn't seem likely.
Tito: I'll let you see. You, you tell me what it says. I'll follow that, and I'll do it no matter what. So if I can't do it, then I'll hurl the orb, I guess, at the wall on accident.
DM: Uh, 25th edition spell, it says explicitly states you hurl the orb At a creature you can see within range. I didn't read that text, but I think it's kind of meant to be implied that you have to have line of sight. Um, yeah, I— to me it doesn't make sense that you could do that without— with there being an object in the way, an obstruction.
Tito: Okay, well, I guess I'll learn my lesson on this one.
Guntrah: You targeting the part of the wall they're hitting or a different part of the wall?
Tito: I get— no, I was in front of this one.
Tavian: How heavy are these enemies?
Silas: Do you know that?
DM: Um, based on their size, you would say 1,000 pounds, maybe? That's just a guess. I mean, I could look it up, but—
Tavian: What are they called again?
DM: I don't know if I want to tell you that.
Tavian: Oh, okay, that's fine, that's fine.
Guntrah: All right, make your attack rolls.
Tavian: Yeah, what are you doing?
DM: Who's doing what?
Guntrah: All right, hitting the wall.
DM: Well, I mean, you have reason to believe that they're on the other side of the wall, so if you want to throw the orb at the wall and hit it and have it bounce to them on the other side, you can do that. But the wall will take damage because the orb's passing through it.
Tito: Yeah, I guess let's do that.
DM: Okay, so, uh, armor of the— or the AC of the wall is 15, I think they said. Okay, is this another 5th-level spell?
Tito: Yes.
Silas: Okay.
Tavian: And you do have a Bless. You could do a 1d4 if you need to.
Tito: I don't. It's 19.
DM: Oh yeah, yeah, you hit the wall. Okay, so do your damage to the wall.
Tito: 13, 20 damage to the wall.
DM: I would say 3. What's that?
Tito: Oh, 9, 29.
Guntrah: Do you have any pairs?
Tavian: Yeah, you have one set of pairs.
Tito: 35 damage to the wall.
DM: Okay, so you break— I was thinking it had 30 left. So you break the wall. I'm just walking that other way. Uh, and I'm gonna do a cast.
Tavian: So he was attacking the other wall, not the super—
Tito: Yeah, I'm in front of this guy.
DM: Oh, okay, you were throwing the other wall. Okay, so no, that wall I mean, if we're trying—
Tavian: are we trying to bust it down?
Tito: I was— this is what this is. I'm already in the middle. I would, knowing now, I would try and bust it down, but this one I'm just using to attack him. So I'll just jump that orb.
Silas: Okay.
Tito: To the guy with the lightning.
DM: Uh, because you can't see him though, you do have disadvantage on this next attack roll.
Silas: Okay.
Tavian: 2 19s.
Silas: Holy shit.
Silas: Oh my God.
DM: No problem, you got him.
Tito: 27. So I, uh, you said I saw that the cold damage didn't work, right?
Silas: Right.
Tito: So I'm gonna be casting a new kind of damage this time.
DM: Yep. Yeah, you get to pick from a bunch of them, right?
Tito: Yeah, thunder, poison, lightning, fire, cold, acid. I'm gonna try acid damage.
Silas: Try cold ass. Oh, cold acid.
DM: Cold ass damage.
Silas: Yes, cold ass damage.
Tito: So not great, but you can bounce again. Oh, I can't bounce against the 3s.
Silas: That's crazy.
Tito: And then 3, 6, Roll 3 again. 6, so 15.
Guntrah: We roll 3 again.
Silas: Oh yeah, yeah, you can always use these ones.
Tito: 17, 24, 27 acid damage.
DM: Okay, 27 to that guy. All right, and it's gonna bounce to the other one.
Tito: Yeah, and disadvantage again.
DM: Yep, disadvantage again.
Guntrah: We use Bardic.
DM: You can try.
Tito: Yeah, I'll use a Bardic Inspiration as a bonus.
Guntrah: So is that a d—
Tito: a d10?
Tavian: Yeah, yeah, at this level.
DM: Yeah, I just looked it up.
Tito: So I have 10 right now.
Tavian: Yeah, 10.
Guntrah: Oh, okay.
Tito: So yeah, the bounce is the other one, and I guess I can't see if the acid damage works, so I'm just gonna continue.
DM: You can't change it anyway. The orb is one.
Silas: Oh yes, right.
Tito: 7, 15, 18, 26, 34, 39 acid damage to the other one.
Silas: Okay, any doubles?
Tito: It doesn't matter. Oh, I can't target—
DM: there's nothing else to bounce to.
Silas: Oh, that's right.
Tito: Yeah, nice.
DM: Uh, okay, then that's it for your turn, correct?
Tito: Because I did use my bonus action.
DM: So you definitely hear 2 impacts and 2 monstrous scream roars, uh, coming from over the wall. Uh, these blood-curdling— ordinarily would be highly terrifying screams, but you feel a lot better that there's a wall between you. Um, All right, and then it is your turn, Tavian.
Tavian: I know it's boring, but I'm gonna, I'm gonna repeat what I yelled last time.
Tito: Hold!
Tavian: I just bash my whisper against the vanguard. Yeah, and I've got Guiding Bolt primed and ready for as soon as I get line of sight.
Guntrah: Got it.
DM: Okay, um, you hear some movement and activity from the workshop area where the drow is, um, and you see he's been reaching up and he's grabbed— he's been reaching around trying find stuff from the workshop up above, and he does seem to have pulled something down into his hand, and it looks like a scroll, and he's got it open. It looks like he might be reading it or about to read it. Um, that's it for him, and it is Silas.
Silas: So I had that— so I can see that somebody now, right? Because the part of the wall—
DM: No, there's nothing destroyed the wall yet.
Guntrah: Oh, okay.
DM: He hit the other part. I thought he was gonna hit the weakened But he hit it through the other side.
Silas: Okay, well, I'm still kind of really— not much for me to do at this point.
DM: I say, hey, check out what that guy's doing under that table. Really? With a 4 Intelligence?
Tavian: I don't know, I see it.
Silas: I don't know.
DM: So I'm just gonna do anything about it.
Silas: So I kind of, I kind of like go, huh? And so I look over at the guy and yeah, I basically try to look over and see what Please do.
DM: I roll Perception.
Tito: Where is he on the map? Which—
Guntrah: like, right here.
Silas: Okay. 6.
Silas: Oh wait, that's the wrong dice. It was a 12.
Silas: It's like, I felt wrong. Oh, 19.
DM: Uh, okay, so yeah, you see exactly what I said. He's got a scroll. And he's getting ready to read a scroll. You can't tell from this range what it is though.
Silas: Is there any snacks?
DM: You don't see any food.
Silas: Dang it.
Silas: Okay, um, all right, well, I, I guess for me that's— I don't know, I mean, there's nothing else I can do too much, I don't think, really. So I just kind of go, I'm like, all right, use the scroll, dude.
DM: Okay, uh, back to Gun, your turn. Um, unless you want to just stop it, he would pick it back up. Yes, I mean, they're both— I, I can't tell you exactly how wounded, but they're both pretty considerably wounded, so it might be over in 10 minutes.
Tavian: I think my first meeting is at 11:30, so I'm good.
Silas: Okay.
Guntrah: All right, well, I'm gonna shoot the guy if I can.
DM: Uh, same thing as last time.
Guntrah: Okay, if I fly up and like over to here, do I get regular shot, no cover?
DM: Uh, if you fly— yeah, if you fly closer to them, you can eliminate his obstruction. Okay, so I'm gonna fly that way, like right here, but 60 feet up, right?
Silas: Okay.
Guntrah: It's gonna be, uh, 19 to hit.
DM: Um, yeah, without the obstruction, that is gonna hit. Which one are you targeting?
Guntrah: Um, whichever one looks weaker.
DM: You can't tell from 60 feet up from vertical like that.
Guntrah: Yeah.
DM: Oh, I forgot to take range.
Guntrah: You still have to use your Bardic Inspiration. Um, 16 points of piercing damage.
DM: Okay, and did you say which one you're targeting? That since you don't know which one's weaker.
Guntrah: Um, let's go with the closer one. Oh, I forgot I can do double attacks because I negate the loader thing.
DM: Artificers get double attack.
Guntrah: Well, I have double attack, but I also don't have the loading.
DM: Yeah, as long as, as long as you eliminate loading in And you have the multiattack.
Guntrah: Yeah, I should have been doing it the whole time. Uh, even higher.
Silas: You could have done Raging Smite on the second one too.
Guntrah: Oh yeah, well, it's okay because I got another 10, so 16.
DM: Um, okay, so that one drops dead.
Tito: Sure.
Silas: Which one was this?
Tito: The closer one.
Guntrah: And, uh, I do have a bonus action, right?
DM: Uh, yes, you did not use your bonus action.
Guntrah: I'll do bonus action to dash.
Silas: You can do that.
Guntrah: And I'll move out of the way of them being able to see me or hit me.
DM: Okay, are you still flying, like bonus action dashing across?
Silas: Yeah, back this way.
DM: Okay, all right. Excellent. Uh, and then Holly will still—
Guntrah: uh, Closer to, uh, Tito.
DM: Okay, like, does he have a lot of movement?
Guntrah: 30, but as close as you can.
DM: Oh, then, then he can get all the way then. Well, he's a construct, does he get that?
Tavian: Just any ally within 5 feet.
Guntrah: Okay, and he's just gonna hold position there.
DM: All right.
Silas: Holy tamale.
DM: Uh, okay, now it is the other guy's turn. He is going to assert it.
Guntrah: So he'll be doing that.
Tito: It's got like, what, 30 left?
DM: Uh, yeah.
Tavian: And as soon as I get line of sight, my Guiding Bolt strikes.
Silas: All right, so let's see.
DM: I'm gonna actually roll for damage this time so I know when the wall comes down, assuming it's got 30 left. Okay, all right, so then he's— that was his claw, and then he's going to Hit with his hooves.
Silas: Okay, let's see, it's gonna be— yep.
DM: Okay, so the hooves end up knocking the wall down for his second attack. He's gonna move forward at Tito for his third attack.
Tavian: Does my hold trigger now?
DM: Uh, yes. Assuming, yeah, your trigger was based on somebody coming out from the wall.
Tavian: Yeah, it was lined up as soon as I could see him.
DM: Okay, then yeah, your trigger will be now then.
Tavian: Because I have 120-foot range, I get a +7 on this and Bardic Inspiration and my Bless if I need it. So that's just 8 7, that's 15.
DM: Uh, that would not be a hit if you don't do anything else.
Tavian: Yeah, add my Bardic Inspiration.
Silas: It's +1.
Tavian: 16.
DM: Uh, that is— you need to beat it, so you have to hit it.
Silas: Wow.
Tavian: All right, so I got 4d6 radiant damage. 6 and a 5 and a 4 and a 3, so, um, 18.
DM: 18 radiant? 18 radiant.
Guntrah: Hit it twice.
DM: Okay, uh, and I think there's a side effect, right? The next person to attack him gets advantage because he's lit. Oh, they were—
Guntrah: yeah.
Tavian: Oh, that's right, exactly. Yeah, they're glittery lit. Yep, because one or both of them were already lit up a little bit.
DM: Yeah, dissipated. I don't think there was anything functional to that. It was just emits light.
Tavian: So this next attack roll against it gets advantage, right?
Silas: Right.
DM: So it charges at Tito, and it is going to use his tail.
Tavian: So it can do a 3rd attack?
Silas: Yes.
Tavian: Wow.
DM: It does 3 different— it hits with its claw and then its hooves and then its tail.
Silas: Nice.
Tito: Okay, um, I'm going to be— I'm just telling you before— I don't know if I have to tell you beforehand, but I'm reacting with Shield.
Guntrah: Okay, Shield is just a flat number you add.
DM: Yeah, yeah, 5 is +5.
Tito: I don't know if you wanted me to tell you before the attack or not, right?
DM: I don't know what your AC is, but I don't know if it's going to be effective or not. He got an 11 plus 8 is 19 on his attack.
Tito: Yeah, so plus 5, mean it to me that you still hit me.
DM: 19 is what was required. Okay, so yeah, even with your shield, you throw a shield up, but his tail is so powerful, and it's actually long too. It's 10 feet long, so it kind of wraps around your shield a little bit when it hits you.
Tavian: When's the appropriate time to say when you're casting the shield?
DM: Was that before—
Silas: premature?
DM: Before it's announced if there's— if it hits or not. No, I think it's— I don't know.
Guntrah: I don't know.
DM: It's a reaction.
Silas: It's a reaction.
DM: It's a reaction, but some reactions you have to announce before the dice have been—
Guntrah: I don't think Shield is one of those where you can say it.
Tavian: It just—
Tito: yeah, it does say— it says when you take— it says which you take when you are hit by an attack.
DM: Okay, so you were hit.
Tito: Yeah, I'm gonna cast it anyways this time because we didn't know.
DM: Yeah, I, I don't— well, I'll look into that. I think if that's how it reads, then you don't have to. Well, but I don't know if you know what the hit is. Like, if I just say as the DM, oh, it's a hit, and then you say I throw up a shield, right? As opposed to, oh, it's a hit but only by— yes, so then you can say, oh well, I'm not gonna shield if it's not gonna work.
Guntrah: So they don't even know the number.
DM: Yeah, so I'll just from now on know that you have that. I'll just say it's a hit or it's not.
Silas: I have that too.
DM: Okay, you have it also.
Guntrah: I also have shield.
Silas: Do you really?
Tito: All 3 of you?
Guntrah: Okay, uh, 25.
Silas: Find the right dice for this. I mean, for me, uh, 19 slashing damage.
DM: And that's it for his turn. Oh, I need to see if he gets his lightning lance back. I did not check that.
Tavian: Yeah, you cast Shield after the attack roll hits you but before the attack's damage is resolved.
Tito: Right, I don't—
DM: but that doesn't define the—
Tito: he doesn't have to tell me what he—
Guntrah: Yeah, you should know the numbers. You know it's a hit or not.
DM: It's not like, oh, I hit.
Silas: Oh yeah, yeah, you just say, okay, I hit you, and then you go, okay, well, I'm gonna react with Shield. And then you say, okay, I get plus 2.
Guntrah: Yeah, I think in general the DM should never say—
DM: You're right, I shouldn't say needed to beat it, you got a 16. Yeah, I should always just say it's a hit or it's a miss. All right, uh, okay, so that's it for his turn, and back to— or no, not back, it is— I think it's your turn, right?
Tito: Yeah, I'm after him.
DM: You go after him.
Silas: Did I go yet?
DM: So wait, you—
Tavian: wait, no, never mind, sorry. Yeah, he was still—
DM: oh, did you prepare something? Yeah, oh yeah, do your Mind Sliver because I don't think that's what you prepared. Well, he, he prompted me because he remembered that he had a prepared action. He didn't prompt me so that I wasn't—
Silas: oh, so yeah, they have to do like an intelligence saving throw.
Silas: Okay.
Silas: And what do they have? Oh, until— oh, so it has to be 17. It says intelligence 17, so does that mean they have to get above that?
DM: He's got to get 17 or higher. He got a nat 1.
Silas: Okay, well, he didn't beat it, so you take 2d6 psychic damage. Well, 7. I had a 6 and a 1. He takes 7 psychic damage, and it says also subtract 1d4 from the next saving throw it makes before the end of your next turn.
Silas: Got it.
DM: Okay, next time somebody makes him do a saving throw, we will try to remember to subtract 1d4. Uh, now it's your turn.
Silas: That won't be hard.
Tito: So I'm going to use, um, my Regain Bardic Inspiration, expend 1 spell slot that doesn't cost an action for one of my Bardic Inspirations back, and then I am going to cast at 4th level Phantasmal Killer. Which is a Wisdom saving throw of 16.
Silas: I got that one too.
DM: With the, uh, uh, that is a 10 plus 1 is 11. It's a fail.
Tito: Okay, so it's going to be 4d10 psychic damage.
DM: Okay, you kill him. He's, he's almost dead. You just obliterate him psychically. Reach into his mind, pull his brain plug. It's all gone.
Silas: He's unplugged from the Matrix.
DM: Uh, so he collapses over. You have these 2 large dead creatures in front of you laying on the ground. You still have most of a— you've not broken your concentration, so you still have most of a stone wall up intact with a hole in it. Um, yeah. Uh, and then, so that's the end. I'm gonna break initiative because there's no more immediate combat.
Tavian: What about the other guy that was in initiative with us?
DM: Oh, he's still here.
Guntrah: Yeah.
DM: Okay.
Silas: Okay.
DM: Um, and I, I, you know, let's keep initiative just for his sake. Okay, so that's it. You killed the guy.
Guntrah: Yeah.
DM: Anything else you want to do?
Tito: Loot his corpse?
DM: You can move to him and, uh, I don't know if looting is an action or what.
Tavian: It'd probably be an action for bonus action.
DM: Yeah, I, I'd say it's an action to do something like that. So yeah, you can move close to him and prepare. Um, I'll let you do an investigation check now to see what's on his corpse.
Silas: Okay, that's what I'll do.
Tito: 18.
DM: Uh, you see lots of natural skin scales. He has almost a metallic, uh, Hide. Um, you don't see any physical, like, made or created weapons. You see all of his naturalness. You see his horns, you see his tail. Uh, you can— there's, there's really nothing to do except maybe try to salvage components from him.
Silas: Okay.
DM: There's nothing to loot from him. Uh, okay, uh, then it is your turn, Tavian, right?
Silas: Yeah.
Tavian: Um, I'll remember that there was another guy and I saw something suspicious, so I will move over there.
Tito: Okay.
Guntrah: 35.
Tavian: I don't know how close I am, but, um, I say kind of innocently, like, the danger is clear, you can come up, come out now.
Tito: Okay.
DM: Um, he's Well, I guess I can't actually— it's not his turn, but he heard you.
Tavian: He could respond, or maybe he doesn't have to, but I guess, uh, you know what, I mean, I'll hold an action. If he, uh, is hostile, tries to cast something, then I'll— okay, counter with a Guiding Bolt again.
Tito: Gotcha.
DM: Uh, if he engages in hostilities, you will smite him with your Guiding Bolt.
Silas: Yeah.
DM: Uh, all right. And then it's actually his turn. So yeah, he's— when he sees the last of the creatures go down, uh, he's gonna start to come out from underneath the workshop, and he's got that scroll in his hand which he was opening to read. He rolls it back up and he starts very hastily coming over to you guys, um, which you're still flying in the air, so you're way too out of the picture for this, uh, and he You're the one who was, I think, addressed him. So he reaches over and he hands this to you and he says, you need to get out of here immediately. There's, there's going to be 15 more of them here in about a minute. Uh, you, you have to go now. They might kill me, they might not, I don't know. But if I leave now, I'm dead anyway. So just, just, just go.
Silas: Just go.
DM: It's the best thing.
Silas: Just go.
Tavian: Can I ask, like, where do we go?
DM: Um, Read the scroll.
Tavian: And I say—
Silas: I say, can't—
DM: yeah, I don't know if you can read it.
Tito: We have a wizard.
Silas: I can read the scroll.
Guntrah: Yeah, I mean, I, I'm gonna fly down at some point.
Tavian: Yeah, I say, Silas, what does this say?
DM: So yeah, he hands you a scroll.
Tito: You—
DM: are you gonna unroll it, look at it?
Tito: Yeah.
DM: So you unroll the scroll and it is the same scroll that you used to get Or the same spell you used to get here. It's a Plane Shift.
Silas: Oh.
DM: It is a, is a very valuable, pretty high-level spell. I don't even know if it's something you can learn yet as a wizard. Um, but you do have a dilemma because you are a wizard and you can read and learn spells from scrolls. That's something that only wizards can do, and that's one of the only ways they can learn new spells is by translating them from a scroll into their spellbook. So you can keep the scroll and use it to learn it, essentially, so when you level up high enough that you can cast that spell, that it's already available to you. Or you can attempt to cast it right now to open a portal back up to get out of here.
Silas: So if I, if I learn that I can't cast it right now—
DM: Learning it takes a long time. It's not going to be— you're not going to do it right now.
Silas: So I can't do both? Well, we can't stay here, right? So I just say, oh man, I wish I could All right, so I just— I, I read the scroll, I do it, and—
DM: Okay, well, there's a process for that. So casting a spell that is above your level does require—
Guntrah: How long does it take to learn?
DM: Uh, there's— it's like a week or more. I forget the exact duration.
Silas: We can't stay here for a week.
Silas: We'd be dead.
DM: Yeah, these— you were able to kill 2 of these things pretty easily. It wasn't really meant to be a challenge, but you know that if 4 more of them show up You're gonna have your work cut out for you. If 15 of them show up, you are absolutely gonna be destroyed. Yeah, yeah, I was about to say that we could take them.
Silas: We can take them.
DM: It says 2 hours per spell level, right? And I think this is, if I'm not mistaken, a 7th level spell. So that would be— oh, so 14 hours is less than I thought. But, and 50 gold pieces per spell level for Materials and experience, which you wouldn't have with you, but you might be able to find him over by the workshop. Who knows what's over by the workshop?
Silas: Oh, I do have a bag of gold already.
DM: Okay, so are you gonna attempt to cast it or you can do something different?
Silas: Yeah, I'm gonna attempt to cast it. I feel like we have to get out of here.
DM: Okay.
Silas: I just don't think we have time to mess around. Those things show up at Any minute we're gonna be screwed.
Tito: So I'm gonna have moved over towards them after discovering these corpses were unmovable.
DM: Uh, okay, so make a spellcasting— well, they say an ability check using your spellcasting modifier. So just roll a d20 and add your spellcasting modifier to it. You can just use one of these, uh, whatever. I forget.
Silas: There it is.
DM: Would you know— have an idea what your spellcasting modifier is? Like +9-ish?
Silas: Yeah, I think it's +9 because my intelligence— yeah, it was +9. Oh my gosh, what is that? 10.
Silas: I rolled a 1.
Tito: You failed.
DM: You rolled a nat 1. Okay, um, all right, hold on a second.
Silas: That wasn't my dice. I need my dice. I feel like that was, that was jinxed because it was your dice.
DM: If you fail the ability check, the spell disappears from the scroll with no effect and the scroll is wasted. So we're gonna pick it back up here next time. Oh, you are stuck here.
Silas: I should not have used your dice.